{% raw %}<div data-fhir="generated"><p class="res-header-id"/><a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS"> </a><a name="hcOrganizationAffiliationRoleCS"> </a><p>This case-sensitive code system <code>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/davinci-pdex-plan-net/CodeSystem/OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS</code> defines the following codes:</p><table class="codes" data-fhir="generated"><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap"><b>Code</b></td><td><b>Display</b></td><td><b>Definition</b></td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">behavioral<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-behavioral"> </a></td><td>Outpatient Behavioral Health Provider</td><td>Provider of services related to the promotion of mental health, resilience and wellbeing; the treatment of mental and substance use disorders; and the support of those who experience and/or are in recovery from these conditions, along with their families and communities.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">bt<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-bt"> </a></td><td>Member Of</td><td>Has a relationship of participation with.  This does NOT represent a member of an insurance plan, but other types of membership such as membership of a hospital in an HIE</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">dme<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-dme"> </a></td><td>DME/Medical Supplier</td><td>Supplier of health care consumables or equipments supplied to patients.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">group<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-group"> </a></td><td>Medical Group</td><td>A group of people, e.g. a group of Physicians, who render health care services.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">home<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-home"> </a></td><td>Home Health Provider</td><td>Provider of health care services delivered to patients within their residence rather than a clinical setting; usually provided by nurses, home health aides, and other professionals on a regularly scheduled visit.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">hospital<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-hospital"> </a></td><td>Hospital</td><td>An inpatient facility, other than long-term care, providng patient treatment with specialzed medical and nursing staff and medical equipment.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">laboratory<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-laboratory"> </a></td><td>Laboratory</td><td>Pathology and laboratory testing on clinical specimenst to obtain informaion about the health of a paeint to aid in diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">other<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-other"> </a></td><td>Other</td><td>A provider of heatlh care services not otherwise listed in this value set.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">outpatient<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-outpatient"> </a></td><td>Clinic or Outpatient Facility</td><td>An outpatient facility providing patient services, e.g. medical procedures, surgeries, etc.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">pharmacy<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-pharmacy"> </a></td><td>Pharmacy</td><td>An entity which provider services related to the storage, compounding, dispensing and sale of drugs.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">transport<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-transport"> </a></td><td>Transporation Provider</td><td>A provider which transports patients to or from a medical facility, e.g., ambulance.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">urgent<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-urgent"> </a></td><td>Urgent Care Center</td><td>A center in which unscheduled health care services are provided for point-in-time evaluation or treatment of a non-life-threatening medical condition.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">hospice<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-hospice"> </a></td><td>Hospice</td><td>Hospice</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">nurseCustodial<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-nurseCustodial"> </a></td><td>Nursing and Custodial Care Facility</td><td>Nursing and Custodial Care Facility</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">residential<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-residential"> </a></td><td>Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>Residential Treatment Facility</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">respite<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-respite"> </a></td><td>Respite Care Facility</td><td>Respite Care Facility</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">retail<a name="OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS-retail"> </a></td><td>Retail Health Center</td><td>Retail Health Center</td></tr></table></div>{% endraw %}