{% raw %}<div data-fhir="generated"><p class="res-header-id"/><a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS"> </a><a name="hcHealthcareServiceCategoryCS"> </a><p>This case-sensitive code system <code>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/davinci-pdex-plan-net/CodeSystem/HealthcareServiceCategoryCS</code> defines the following codes:</p><table class="codes" data-fhir="generated"><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap"><b>Code</b></td><td><b>Display</b></td><td><b>Definition</b></td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">behav<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-behav"> </a></td><td>Behavioral Health</td><td>Services related to the promotion of mental health, resilience and wellbeing; the treatment of mental and substance use disorders; and the support of those who experience and/or are in recovery from these conditions, along with their families and communities.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">dent<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-dent"> </a></td><td>Dental</td><td>Services related to the study, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases, disorders, and conditions of the mouth.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">dme<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-dme"> </a></td><td>DME/Medical Supplies</td><td>Health care consumables or equipments supplied to patients</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">emerg<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-emerg"> </a></td><td>Emergency care</td><td>Health care services rendered within a designated emergency care facility, for point-in-time evaluation and/or treatment any medical condition such that a prudent layperson possessing an average knowledge of medicine and health, believes that immediate unscheduled medical care is required.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">group<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-group"> </a></td><td>Medical Group</td><td>Health care services rendered by a group of people, e.g. a group of Physicians.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">home<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-home"> </a></td><td>Home Health</td><td>Health care services delivered to patients within their residence rather than a clinical setting; usually provided by nurses, home health aides, and other professionals on a regularly scheduled visit.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">hosp<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-hosp"> </a></td><td>Hospital</td><td>Health care services rendered within a hospital or other inpatient setting providng patient treatment with specialzed medical and nursing staff and medical equipment.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">lab<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-lab"> </a></td><td>Laboratory</td><td>Pathology and laboratory testing on clinical specimenst to obtain informaion about the health of a paeint to aid in diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">other<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-other"> </a></td><td>Other</td><td>Other</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">outpat<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-outpat"> </a></td><td>Clinic or Outpatient Facility</td><td>Health care services rendered in an outpatient facility, e.g. medical procedures, surgeries, etc.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">prov<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-prov"> </a></td><td>Medical Provider</td><td>Health care services rendered by a person, e.g. Physician.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">pharm<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-pharm"> </a></td><td>Pharmacy</td><td>Services related to the storage, compounding, dispensing and sale of drugs.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">trans<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-trans"> </a></td><td>Transportation</td><td>Services which transport patients to or from a medical facility, e.g., ambulance.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">urg<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-urg"> </a></td><td>Urgent Care</td><td>Unscheduled health care services which provide for point-in-time evaluation or treatment of a non-life-threatening medical condition.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">vis<a name="HealthcareServiceCategoryCS-vis"> </a></td><td>Vision</td><td>Services related to the study, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases, disorders, and conditions of the eyes.</td></tr></table></div>{% endraw %}