{% raw %} <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-AcceptingPatientsVS.json.html">Accepting Patients Codes VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes to identify if the practice is accepting new patients</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-AccessibilityVS.json.html">Accessibility VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for documenting general categories of accommodations available.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-DeliveryMethodVS.json.html">Delivery Methods VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for documenting delivery methods.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-EndpointConnectionTypeVS.json.html">Endpoint Connection Types VS</a> </td><td><p>Endpoint Connection Types</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-EndpointPayloadTypeVS.json.html">Endpoint Payload Types VS</a> </td><td><p>Endpoint Payload Types are constrained to NA (Not Applicable) as part of this IG</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-EndpointUsecaseVS.json.html">Endpoint Usecases VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for documenting business use case by a general grouping by business area.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-HealthcareServiceCategoryVS.json.html">Healthcare Service CategoryVS</a> </td><td><p>Broad categories of healthcare services being performed or delivered.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-HealthcareServiceTypeVS.json.html">HealthcareService Types VS</a> </td><td><p>Valueset for HealthCareService type</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-IndividualAndGroupSpecialtiesVS.json.html">Individual and Group Specialties</a> </td><td><p>Individual and Group Specialties from National Uniform Claim Committee (NUCC) Health Care Provider Taxonomy code set.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-IndividualSpecialtyAndDegreeLicenseCertificateVS.json.html">Individual Specialties, Degrees, Licenses, and Certificates VS</a> </td><td><p>Individual Specialties, Degrees, Licenses, and Certificates</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-InsurancePlanTypeVS.json.html">Insurance Plan TypeVS</a> </td><td><p>Categories of cost-sharing used by plans.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-InsuranceProductTypeVS.json.html">Insurance Product Type VS</a> </td><td><p>A distinct package of health insurance coverage benefits that are offered using a particular product network type.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-LanguageProficiencyVS.json.html">Language Proficiency VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for documenting spoken language proficiency based on the Interagency Language Roundtable scale of abilities to communicate in a language.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-MinEndpointConnectionTypeVS.json.html">Minimum Endpoint Connection Types VS</a> </td><td><p>Minimum Endpoint Connection Types</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-NetworkTypeVS.json.html">Network Type VS</a> </td><td><p>Single value describing networks.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-NonIndividualSpecialtiesVS.json.html">Non-Individual Specialties</a> </td><td><p>Non-Individual Specialties from National Uniform Claim Committee (NUCC) Health Care Provider Taxonomy code set.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-NonIndividualSpecialtyAndDegreeLicenseCertificateVS.json.html">Non-Individual Specialties, Degrees, Licenses, and Certificates VS</a> </td><td><p>Non-Individual Specialties, Degrees, Licenses, and Certificates</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-OrgTypeVS.json.html">Organization Type VS</a> </td><td><p>Categories of organizations based on criteria in provider directories.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-OrganizationAffiliationRoleVS.json.html">OrganizationAffiliation Roles</a> </td><td><p>Value Set for Organization Affiliation Roles</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-PractitionerRoleVS.json.html">PractitionerRole Code VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for the capabilities that an individual, group, or organization is acknowledged to have in a payer network, including general codes from the HL7 PractitionerRole Code System.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-QualificationStatusVS.json.html">Qualification Status VS</a> </td><td><p>The state indicating if a qualification is currently valid.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-SpecialtiesVS.json.html">Specialties VS</a> </td><td><p>Specialties value set based on National Uniform Claim Committee (NUCC) Health Care Provider Taxonomy code set.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-SpecialtyAndDegreeLicenseCertificateVS.json.html">Specialties, Degrees, Licenses, and Certificates VS</a> </td><td><p>Specialties and Degree License and Certificates</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="ValueSet-VirtualModalitiesVS.json.html">Virtual Modalities VS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for virtual service delivery modalities.</p>
</td></tr>
{% endraw %}