{% raw %} <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-AcceptingPatientsCS.json.html">Accepting Patients Codes</a> </td><td><p>Codes to identify if the practice is accepting new patients</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-AccessibilityCS.json.html">Accessibility CS</a> </td><td><p>General categories of accommodations available.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-DeliveryMethodCS.json.html">Delivery Methods</a> </td><td><p>Categories of healthcare service delivery methods.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-EndpointConnectionTypeCS.json.html">Endpoint Connection Types (additional)</a> </td><td><p>Extension codes for http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/endpoint-connection-type</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-EndpointPayloadTypeCS.json.html">Endpoint Payload Types</a> </td><td><p>Endpoint Payload Types are constrained to NA (Not Applicable) as part of this IG</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-HealthcareServiceCategoryCS.json.html">Healthcare Service Category</a> </td><td><p>Broad categories of healthcare services being performed or delivered</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-InsurancePlanTypeCS.json.html">Insurance Plan Type</a> </td><td><p>Categories of cost-sharing used by plans</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-InsuranceProductTypeCS.json.html">Insurance Product Type</a> </td><td><p>A distinct package of health insurance coverage benefits that are offered using a particular product network type.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-LanguageProficiencyCS.json.html">Language Proficiency CS</a> </td><td><p>Codes for documenting spoken language proficiency based on the Interagency Language Roundtable scale of abilities to communicate in a language.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-OrgTypeCS.json.html">Organization Type</a> </td><td><p>Categories of organizations based on criteria in provider directories.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-OrganizationAffiliationRoleCS.json.html">Organization Affiliation Role</a> </td><td><p>Codes For Organization Affiliation Role</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-ProviderRoleCS.json.html">Provider Role Codes</a> </td><td><p>A capability that an individual, group, or organization is acknowledged to have in a payer network.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-QualificationStatusCS.json.html">Qualification Status</a> </td><td><p>The state indicating if a qualification is currently valid.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="CodeSystem-VirtualModalitiesCS.json.html">Virtual Modalities</a> </td><td><p>Categories of virtual service delivery modalities.</p>
</td></tr>
{% endraw %}