{% raw %}<div data-fhir="generated"><p class="res-header-id"/><a name="NonIndividualSpecialtiesVS"> </a><a name="hcNonIndividualSpecialtiesVS"> </a><ul><li>Include these codes as defined in <a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4"><code>http://nucc.org/provider-taxonomy</code></a><span style="opacity: 0.5" title="Version is not explicitly stated. When building this specification, the most recent version 22.1 has been used"> version ⏿22.1</span><table class="none" data-fhir="generated"><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap"><b>Code</b></td><td><b>Display</b></td><td><b>Definition</b></td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251300000X">251300000X</a></td><td>Local Education Agency (LEA)</td><td>The term local education agency means a public board of education or other public authority legally constituted within a State to either provide administrative control or direction of, or perform a service function for public schools serving individuals ages 0 - 21 in a state, city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision including a combination of school districts or counties recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public schools.  An LEA may provide, or employ professional who provide, services to children included in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), such services may include, but are not limited to, such medical services as physical, occupational, and speech therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251B00000X">251B00000X</a></td><td>Case Management Agency</td><td>An organization that is responsible for providing case management services.  The agency provides services which assist an individual in gaining access to needed medical, social, educational, and/or other services.  Case management services may be used to locate, coordinate, and monitor necessary appropriate services.  It may be used to encourage the use of cost-effective medical care by referrals to appropriate providers and to discourage over utilization of costly services.  Case management may also serve to provide necessary coordination of non-medical services such as vocational rehabilitation, education, employment, when the services provided enable the individual to function at the highest level.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251C00000X">251C00000X</a></td><td>Developmentally Disabled Services Day Training Agency</td><td>These agencies are authorized to provide day habilitation services to developmentally disabled individuals who live in their homes.  The function of day habilitation is to assist an individual to acquire and maintain those life skills that enable the individual to cope more effectively with the demands of independent living.  Also to raise the level of the individual's physical, mental, social, and vocational functioning.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251E00000X">251E00000X</a></td><td>Home Health Agency</td><td>A public agency or private organization, or a subdivision of such an agency or organization, that is primarily engaged in providing skilled nursing services and other therapeutic services, such as physical therapy, speech-language pathology services, or occupational therapy, medical social services, and home health aide services. It has policies established by a professional group associated with the agency or organization (including at least one physician and one registered nurse) to govern the services and provides for supervision of such services by a physician or a registered nurse; maintains clinical records on all patients; is licensed in accordance with State or local law or is approved by the State or local licensing agency as meeting the licensing standards, where applicable; and meets other conditions found by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to be necessary for health and safety.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251F00000X">251F00000X</a></td><td>Home Infusion Agency</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251G00000X">251G00000X</a></td><td>Community Based Hospice Care Agency</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251J00000X">251J00000X</a></td><td>Nursing Care Agency</td><td>A Nursing Care Agency is an entity that provides skilled nursing care through the services of a Registered Nurse (RN) or a Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN), by employees, contracted individuals, or via a registry, in a variety of settings. The agency may engage in providing private duty nursing and/or staffing services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251K00000X">251K00000X</a></td><td>Public Health or Welfare Agency</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251S00000X">251S00000X</a></td><td>Community/Behavioral Health Agency</td><td>A private or public agency usually under local government jurisdiction, responsible for assuring the delivery of community based mental health, intellectual disabilities, substance abuse and/or behavioral health services to individuals with those disabilities. Services may range from companion care, respite, transportation, community integration, crisis intervention and stabilization, supported employment, day support, prevocational services, residential support, therapeutic and supportive consultation, environmental modifications, intensive in-home therapy and day treatment, in addition to traditional mental health and behavioral treatment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251T00000X">251T00000X</a></td><td>PACE Provider Organization</td><td>A PACE provider organization is a not-for-profit private or public entity that is primarily engaged in providing PACE services(unique capitated managed care benefits for the frail elderly which include comprehensive medical and social services).  The following characteristics also apply to a PACE organization.  It must:  have a governing board that includes community representation; be able to provide complete PACE services regardless of frequency or duration of services; have a physical site to provide adult day services; have a defined service area; have safeguards against conflict of interest; have demonstrated fiscal soundness and have a formal Participant Bill of Rights.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251V00000X">251V00000X</a></td><td>Voluntary or Charitable Agency</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-251X00000X">251X00000X</a></td><td>Supports Brokerage Agency</td><td>A provider of service/function that assists participating individuals to make informed decisions about what will work best for them is consistent with their needs and reflects their individual circumstances. Serving as the agent of the individual, the service is available to assist in identifying immediate and long-term needs, developing options to meet those needs and accessing identified supports and services and may include assistance with recruiting, screening, hiring, and training in-home support providers. A family or person-centered planning approach is used. Supports Brokerage offers practical skills training to enable families and individuals to remain independent. Examples of skills training include providing information on recruiting and hiring personal care workers, managing personal care workers and providing information on effective communication and problem solving. The service/function provides sufficient information to assure that individuals understand the responsibilities involved with self-direction and assist in the development of an effective back-up and emergency plan. Plans may elect to fulfill the requirement of this service/function using a self-directed case manager or creating a distinct service. The Supports Brokerage documents the need for assistive services, planning for and documenting the use of excess funds and locating and maintaining services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-252Y00000X">252Y00000X</a></td><td>Early Intervention Provider Agency</td><td>Early intervention services are an effective way to address the needs of infants and toddlers who have developmental delays or disabilities. The services are made available through a federal law known as the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). IDEA provides states and territories with specific requirements for providing early intervention services to infants and toddlers with special needs. In turn, each state and territory develops its own policies for carrying out IDEA and its requirements. Broadly speaking, early intervention services are special services for eligible infants and toddlers and their families. These services are designed to identify and meet children's needs in five developmental areas. These areas are: physical development, cognitive development, communication, social or emotional development, and adaptive development.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-253J00000X">253J00000X</a></td><td>Foster Care Agency</td><td>A Foster Care Agency is an agency that provides foster care as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as &quot;24-hour substitute care for children outside their own homes.&quot; Foster care settings include, but are not limited to, nonrelative foster family homes, relative foster homes (whether payments are being made or not), group homes, emergency shelters, residential facilities, and pre-adoptive homes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-253Z00000X">253Z00000X</a></td><td>In Home Supportive Care Agency</td><td>An In Home Supportive Care Agency provides services in the patient's home with the goal of enabling the patient to remain at home.  The services provided may include personal care services such as hands-on assistance with activities of daily living (ADLs), e.g., eating, bathing, dressing, and bladder and bowel requirements; homemaker services and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), e.g., taking medications, shopping for groceries, laundry, housekeeping, and companionship; and/or supervision or cuing so that a person can perform tasks themselves.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261Q00000X">261Q00000X</a></td><td>Clinic/Center</td><td>A facility or distinct part of one used for the diagnosis and treatment of outpatients. &quot;Clinic/Center&quot; is irregularly defined, sometimes being limited to organizations serving specialized treatment requirements or distinct patient/client groups (e.g., radiology, poor, and public health).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QA0005X">261QA0005X</a></td><td>Ambulatory Family Planning Facility</td><td>An abortion/family planning facility where services are provided at a fixed specific location.  An Ambulatory Family Planning Facility does not provide overnight accommodations. The following procedures may be performed at an Ambulatory Family Planning Facility: abortions, laproscopy, hysterectomies, tubule ligation and other related procedures. Abortion is considered voluntary termination of pregnancy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QA0006X">261QA0006X</a></td><td>Ambulatory Fertility Facility</td><td>A fertility facility, which may be licensed, registered, or certified in some states,  that is not hospital-based, where services are provided at a fixed specific location. An Ambulatory Fertility Facility does not provide overnight accommodations. The following fertility procedures may be performed at an Ambulatory Fertility Facility: In Vitro Fertilization (IVF), Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT), Embryo Transfer-Thaw (ET-T), Zygote Intrafallopian Transfer (ZIFT), Donor OOCYTE (DO)</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QA0600X">261QA0600X</a></td><td>Adult Day Care Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QA0900X">261QA0900X</a></td><td>Amputee Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing counseling, fitting, custom design, prescriptive, and training services related to congenital or postoperative absence of all or part of a limb or limbs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QA1903X">261QA1903X</a></td><td>Ambulatory Surgical Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QA3000X">261QA3000X</a></td><td>Augmentative Communication Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility staffed by audiology and/or speech professionals with special training in the evaluation of a patient's potential for use of an augmentative communication device, determination of the most appropriate device, adjustment and maintenance of the device, and training the patient to use the device.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QB0400X">261QB0400X</a></td><td>Birthing Clinic/Center</td><td>A freestanding birth center is a health facility other than a hospital where childbirth is planned to occur away from the pregnant woman's residence, and that provides prenatal, labor and delivery, and postpartum care, as well as other ambulatory services for women and newborns.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QC0050X">261QC0050X</a></td><td>Critical Access Hospital Clinic/Center</td><td>An outpatient entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility within or affiliated with a Critical Access Hospital that provides access to primary care services for individuals in a small rural community and is Medicare certified.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QC1500X">261QC1500X</a></td><td>Community Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QC1800X">261QC1800X</a></td><td>Corporate Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QD0000X">261QD0000X</a></td><td>Dental Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QD1600X">261QD1600X</a></td><td>Developmental Disabilities Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing comprehensive, multidiscipline diagnostic, treatment, therapy, training, and counseling services to children with congenital disorders that precipitate developmental delays and in many instances mental deficiencies (e.g., Cerebral Palsy, metabolic disorders, Sturge-Weber Syndrome, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QE0002X">261QE0002X</a></td><td>Emergency Care Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QE0700X">261QE0700X</a></td><td>End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Treatment Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QE0800X">261QE0800X</a></td><td>Endoscopy Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QF0050X">261QF0050X</a></td><td>Non-Surgical Family Planning Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility, or mobile unit providing non-surgical, family planning/reproductive services including physical examination, laboratory services such as PAP or pregnancy tests; pregnancy, pregnancy prevention/contraceptive, and nutritional counseling, and contraceptives or prescriptions for contraceptives.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QF0400X">261QF0400X</a></td><td>Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QG0250X">261QG0250X</a></td><td>Genetics Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing analysis of family history, genetic laboratory testing and analysis, diagnosis of genetic trait, prognosis and options.  Laboratory studies may be outsourced.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QH0100X">261QH0100X</a></td><td>Health Service Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QH0700X">261QH0700X</a></td><td>Hearing and Speech Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic, treatment, prescriptive, and therapy services related to congenital and acquired conditions and diseases that affect hearing capacity and speech ability.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QI0500X">261QI0500X</a></td><td>Infusion Therapy Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QL0400X">261QL0400X</a></td><td>Lithotripsy Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM0801X">261QM0801X</a></td><td>Mental Health Clinic/Center (Including Community Mental Health Center)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM0850X">261QM0850X</a></td><td>Adult Mental Health Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic, treatment, and prescriptive services related to mental and behavioral disorders in adults.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM0855X">261QM0855X</a></td><td>Adolescent and Children Mental Health Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic, treatment, and prescriptive services related to mental and behavioral disorders in children and adolescents.  Services may be provided to parents and family members of the patient in the form of conjoint, group, or individual therapy, and education and/or training.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1000X">261QM1000X</a></td><td>Migrant Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1100X">261QM1100X</a></td><td>Military/U.S. Coast Guard Outpatient Clinic/Center</td><td>The Defense Health Program or U.S. Coast Guard funded &quot;fixed&quot; facilities or distinct parts of a facility, providing outpatient medical and dental services, primarily for Uniformed Services beneficiaries.  A &quot;fixed&quot; facility is a non-temporary, non-deployed facility.  It includes mobile specialty units such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) units that may furnish services at the &quot;fixed&quot; facility.  It includes, as examples, the institutional portion of outpatient encounters (except Ambulatory Procedure Visits), supplies issued (e.g., glasses, ostomy supplies, crutches), and radiology and laboratory studies.  Does not include items issued directly to a patient from an outpatient pharmacy or patient transport.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1101X">261QM1101X</a></td><td>Military and U.S. Coast Guard Ambulatory Procedure Clinic/Center</td><td>That part of a &quot;fixed&quot; (non-temporary, non-deployed) DoD or Coast Guard entity furnishing surgical procedures requiring medically supervised recovery.  Similar to a civilian ambulatory surgical center.  May be in shared resources with a DoD or Coast Guard Clinic or a DoD Hospital.  Does not include items issued directly to a patient from an outpatient pharmacy or patient transport.  Includes initial &quot;take home&quot; pharmaceuticals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1102X">261QM1102X</a></td><td>Military Outpatient Operational (Transportable) Component Clinic/Center</td><td>&quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities or distinct parts of a &quot;non-fixed&quot; facility, providing outpatient medical and dental services, primarily intended for DoD active duty. The entity is funded with other than Defense Health Program funding. Non-DoD active duty may receive services from this entity. &quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities are generally deployed DoD health care activities, not providing services on or in association with a DoD fort or base. &quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities include outpatient services furnished onboard ships. &quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities also include deployed clinics. Does not include items issued directly to a patient from an outpatient pharmacy or patient transport.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1103X">261QM1103X</a></td><td>Military Ambulatory Procedure Visits Operational (Transportable) Clinic/Center</td><td>&quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities or distinct parts of a &quot;non-fixed&quot; facility, providing outpatient surgical procedures requiring medically supervised recovery. Does not include items issued directly to a patient from an outpatient pharmacy or patient transport. Includes initial &quot;take home&quot; pharmaceuticals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1200X">261QM1200X</a></td><td>Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM1300X">261QM1300X</a></td><td>Multi-Specialty Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM2500X">261QM2500X</a></td><td>Medical Specialty Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic, treatment, and prescriptive services related to a specific area of medical specialization.  Frequently used for Title V related Children's Specialty services or to meet specific public health needs (e.g., infectious diseases or breast and cervical cancer).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM2800X">261QM2800X</a></td><td>Methadone Clinic</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic, and replacement maintenance treatment services related to individuals with drug addiction.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QM3000X">261QM3000X</a></td><td>Medically Fragile Infants and Children Day Care</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility specially equipped and staffed to provide care for medically fragile children with varied and complex care needs (e.g., enteral or parental feeding, ostomy care, respiratory/ventilator care, medications and therapies, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP0904X">261QP0904X</a></td><td>Federal Public Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP0905X">261QP0905X</a></td><td>State or Local Public Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP1100X">261QP1100X</a></td><td>Podiatric Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP2000X">261QP2000X</a></td><td>Physical Therapy Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic and treatment services related to physical rehabilitation. Physical therapy is a dynamic profession with an established theoretical and scientific base and widespread clinical applications in the restoration, maintenance, and promotion of optimal physical function. Physical therapists and physical therapist assistants are licensed health care professionals who are experts in the movement system and help individuals maintain, restore, and improve movement, activity, and functioning, thereby enabling optimal performance and enhancing health, well-being, and quality of life. Their services prevent, minimize, or eliminate impairments of body functions and structures, activity limitations, and participation restrictions. Physical therapy is provided for individuals of all ages who have or may develop impairments, activity limitations, and participation restrictions related to (1) conditions of the musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and/or integumentary systems or (2) the negative effects attributable to unique personal and environmental factors as they relate to human performance.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP2300X">261QP2300X</a></td><td>Primary Care Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP2400X">261QP2400X</a></td><td>Prison Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QP3300X">261QP3300X</a></td><td>Pain Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0200X">261QR0200X</a></td><td>Radiology Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0206X">261QR0206X</a></td><td>Mammography Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0207X">261QR0207X</a></td><td>Mobile Mammography Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0208X">261QR0208X</a></td><td>Mobile Radiology Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0400X">261QR0400X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0401X">261QR0401X</a></td><td>Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facility (CORF)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0404X">261QR0404X</a></td><td>Cardiac Rehabilitation Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0405X">261QR0405X</a></td><td>Substance Use Disorder Rehabilitation Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR0800X">261QR0800X</a></td><td>Recovery Care Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR1100X">261QR1100X</a></td><td>Research Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QR1300X">261QR1300X</a></td><td>Rural Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QS0112X">261QS0112X</a></td><td>Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Clinic/Center</td><td>The specialty of dentistry which includes the diagnosis, surgical and adjunctive treatment of diseases, injuries and defects involving both the functional and esthetic aspects of the hard and soft tissues of the oral and maxillofacial region.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QS0132X">261QS0132X</a></td><td>Ophthalmologic Surgery Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QS1000X">261QS1000X</a></td><td>Student Health Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QS1200X">261QS1200X</a></td><td>Sleep Disorder Diagnostic Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QU0200X">261QU0200X</a></td><td>Urgent Care Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QV0200X">261QV0200X</a></td><td>VA Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QX0100X">261QX0100X</a></td><td>Occupational Medicine Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QX0200X">261QX0200X</a></td><td>Oncology Clinic/Center</td><td>An entity, facility, or distinct part of a facility providing diagnostic, treatment and prescriptive services related to cancerous conditions.  Services include chemotherapy infusions and monitoring of implanted chemotherapeutic agents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-261QX0203X">261QX0203X</a></td><td>Radiation Oncology Clinic/Center</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-273100000X">273100000X</a></td><td>Epilepsy Hospital Unit</td><td>An Epilepsy Unit is a distinct unit of a hospital that provides services that may include observation, urgent care, diagnostic testing, treatment, and medication management for patients with seizure disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-273R00000X">273R00000X</a></td><td>Psychiatric Hospital Unit</td><td>In general, a distinct unit of a hospital that provides acute or long-term care to emotionally disturbed patients, including patients admitted for diagnosis and those admitted for treatment of psychiatric problems on the basis of physicians' orders and approved nursing care plans. Long-term care may include intensive supervision to the chronically mentally ill, mentally disordered or other mentally incompetent persons; (2) For Medicare, a distinct part of a general acute care hospital admitting only patients whose admission to the unit is required for active treatment, whose treatment is of an intensity that can be provided only in an inpatient hospital setting, and whose condition is described by a psychiatric principal diagnosis contained in the Third Edition of the American Psychiatric Association Diagnostic and Statistical Manual or in Chapter 5 (Mental Disorders) of the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM). The unit must furnish, through the use of qualified personnel, psychological services, social work services, psychiatric nursing, occupational therapy, and recreational therapy. The unit must maintain medical records that permit determination of the degree and intensity of treatment provided to individuals who are furnished services in the unit; the unit must meet special staff requirements in that the unit must have adequate numbers of qualified professional and supportive staff to evaluate inpatients, formulate written, individualized, comprehensive treatment plans, provide active treatment measures and engage in discharge planning.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-273Y00000X">273Y00000X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Hospital Unit</td><td>In general, a distinct unit of a general acute care hospital that provides care encompassing a comprehensive array of restoration services for the disabled and all support services necessary to help patients attain their maximum functional capacity. Source: AHA Annual Survey p. A10 1996 AHA Guide. For Medicare, a distinct part of a general acute care hospital providing inpatient rehabilitation services that meets the following requirements. Rehabilitation Units have in effect a preadmission screening procedure under which each prospective patient's condition and medical history are reviewed to determine whether the patient is likely to benefit significantly from an intensive inpatient program or assessment; ensure that the patients receive close medical supervision and furnish, through the use of qualified personnel, rehabilitation nursing, physical therapy and occupational therapy, plus, as needed, speech therapy, social services or psychological services and orthotic and prosthetic services; have a plan of treatment for each inpatient that is established, reviewed, and revised as needed by a physician in consultation with other professional personnel who provide services to the patient; use a coordinated multidisciplinary team approach in the rehabilitation of each inpatient, as documented by periodic clinical entries made in the patient's medical record to note the patient's status in relationship to goal attainment, and that team conferences are held at least every two weeks to determine the appropriateness of treatment; have a director of rehabilitation who provides services to the unit and its inpatients for at least 20 hours a week, is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, is licensed under State law to practice medicine or surgery, and has had, after completing a one-year hospital internship at least two years of training or experience in the medical management of inpatients requiring rehabilitation services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-275N00000X">275N00000X</a></td><td>Medicare Defined Swing Bed Hospital Unit</td><td>A unit of a hospital that has a Medicare provider agreement and has been granted approval from HCFA to provide post-hospital extended care services and be reimbursed as a swing-bed unit.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-276400000X">276400000X</a></td><td>Substance Use Disorder Rehabilitation Hospital Unit</td><td>A distinct part of a hospital that provides medically monitored, interdisciplinary addiction-focused treatment to patients/clients who have psychoactive substance use disorders (commonly referred to as alcohol and drug abuse or substance abuse.)</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-281P00000X">281P00000X</a></td><td>Chronic Disease Hospital</td><td>(1) A hospital including a physical plant and personnel that provides multidisciplinary diagnosis and treatment for diseases that have one or more of the following characteristics: is permanent; leaves residual disability; is caused by nonreversible pathological alteration; requires special training of the patient for rehabilitation; and/or may be expected to require a long period of supervision or care. In addition, patients require the safety, security, and shelter of these specialized inpatient or partial hospitalization settings. (2) A hospital that provides medical and skilled nursing services to patients with long-term illnesses who are not in an acute phase but who require an intensity of services not available in nursing homes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-281PC2000X">281PC2000X</a></td><td>Children' s Chronic Disease Hospital</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282E00000X">282E00000X</a></td><td>Long Term Care Hospital</td><td>Long-term care hospitals (LTCHs) furnish extended medical and rehabilitative care to individuals who are clinically complex and have multiple acute or chronic conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282J00000X">282J00000X</a></td><td>Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institution</td><td>Furnishes only nonmedical nursing items and services to patients who choose to rely solely upon a religious method of healing, and for whom the acceptance of medical services would be inconsistent with their religious beliefs.  Furnishes nonmedical items and services exclusively through nonmedical nursing personnel who are experienced in caring for the physical needs of nonmedical patients.  For example, caring for the physical needs such as assistance with activities of daily living; assistance in moving, positioning, and ambulation; nutritional needs; and comfort and support measures.  Furnishes nonmedical items and services to inpatients on a 24-hour basis.  Does not furnish, on the basis of religious beliefs, through its personnel or otherwise, medical items and services (including any medical screening, examination, diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, or the administration of drugs) for its patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282N00000X">282N00000X</a></td><td>General Acute Care Hospital</td><td>An acute general hospital is an institution whose primary function is to provide inpatient diagnostic and therapeutic services for a variety of medical conditions, both surgical and non-surgical, to a wide population group. The hospital treats patients in an acute phase of illness or injury, characterized by a single episode or a fairly short duration, from which the patient returns to his or her normal or previous level of activity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282NC0060X">282NC0060X</a></td><td>Critical Access Hospital</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282NC2000X">282NC2000X</a></td><td>Children's Hospital</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282NR1301X">282NR1301X</a></td><td>Rural Acute Care Hospital</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-282NW0100X">282NW0100X</a></td><td>Women's Hospital</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-283Q00000X">283Q00000X</a></td><td>Psychiatric Hospital</td><td>An organization including a physical plant and personnel that provides multidisciplinary diagnostic and treatment mental health services to patients requiring the safety, security, and shelter of the inpatient or partial hospitalization settings.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-283X00000X">283X00000X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Hospital</td><td>A hospital or facility that provides health-related, social and/or vocational services to disabled persons to help them attain their maximum functional capacity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-283XC2000X">283XC2000X</a></td><td>Children's Rehabilitation Hospital</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-284300000X">284300000X</a></td><td>Special Hospital</td><td>A designation by the AHA of a hospital whose primary function of the institution is to provide diagnostic and treatment services for patients who have specified medical conditions, both surgical and nonsurgical.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-286500000X">286500000X</a></td><td>Military Hospital</td><td>A health care facility operated by the Department of Defense.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2865M2000X">2865M2000X</a></td><td>Military General Acute Care Hospital</td><td>A Department of Defense (DoD) health care organization furnishing inpatient care 24 hours per day in &quot;fixed&quot; facilities, primarily for DoD beneficiaries. Entity is Defense Health Program (DHP) funded. A &quot;fixed&quot; facility is a non-temporary, non-deployed facility usually used for health care services. It includes mobile specialty units such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) units that may furnish services at the &quot;fixed&quot; facility. It includes those services and institutional costs usually included in a Diagnosis Related Group as well as &quot;pass-through&quot; items.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2865X1600X">2865X1600X</a></td><td>Operational (Transportable) Military General Acute Care Hospital</td><td>A Department of Defense (DoD) health care organization furnishing inpatient care 24 hours per day in &quot;non-fixed&quot; or deployed facilities. Entity is not Defense Health Program funded. Services are primarily intended for DoD active duty though some services may be furnished for non-DoD active duty. &quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities are generally deployed DoD health care activities, not providing services on or in association with a DoD fort or base. &quot;Non-fixed&quot; facilities include hospital ships.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-291900000X">291900000X</a></td><td>Military Clinical Medical Laboratory</td><td>A Department of Defense (DoD) medical clinical reference laboratory not associated with a DoD Hospital or DoD Clinic. An example is the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-291U00000X">291U00000X</a></td><td>Clinical Medical Laboratory</td><td>(1) A clinical laboratory is a facility for the biological, microbiological, serological, chemical, immunohematological, hematological, biophysical, cytological, pathological, or other examination of materials derived from the human body for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any disease or impairment of, human beings. These examinations also include procedures to determine, measure, or otherwise describe the presence or absence of various substances or organisms in the body. Facilities only collecting or preparing specimens (or both) or only serving as a mailing service and not performing testing are not considered clinical laboratories. (2) Any facility that examines materials from the human body for purposes of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of, the health of human beings. Typical divisions of a clinical laboratory include hematology, cytology, bacteriology, histology, biochemistry, medical toxicology, and serology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-292200000X">292200000X</a></td><td>Dental Laboratory</td><td>A commercial laboratory specializing in the construction of dental appliances that conform to a dentist's specifications including the construction of dentures (complete or partial), orthodontic appliances, bridgework, crowns, and inlays.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-293D00000X">293D00000X</a></td><td>Physiological Laboratory</td><td>A laboratory that operates independently of a hospital and physician's office to furnish physiological diagnostic services (e.g. EEG's , EKG's, scans, etc.). Facilities offering ONLY physiological services are not certified as independent laboratories. If an independent laboratory offers physiological services IN ADDITION to clinical laboratory services, they are surveyed only for compliance with the clinical laboratory regulations because there are no health and safety regulations for physiological services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-302F00000X">302F00000X</a></td><td>Exclusive Provider Organization</td><td>(1) An EPO is a form of PPO, in which patients must visit a caregiver that is specified on its panel of providers (is a participating provider). If a visit to an outside(not participating) provider is made the EPO offers very limited or no coverage for the medical service; (2) While similar to a PPO in that an EPO allows patients to go outside the network for care, if they do so in an EPO, they are required to pay the entire cost of care. An EPO differs from an HMO in that EPO physicians do not receive capitation but instead are reimbursed only for actual services provided; (3) An organization identical to a preferred provider organization except that persons enrolled in the plan are eligible to receive benefits only when they use the services of the contracting providers. No benefits are available when non-contracting providers are used, except in certain emergency situations.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-302R00000X">302R00000X</a></td><td>Health Maintenance Organization</td><td>(1) A form of health insurance in which its members prepay a premium for the HMO's health services which generally include inpatient and ambulatory care. For the patient, an HMO means reduced out-of-pocket costs (i.e. no deductible), no paperwork (i.e. insurance forms), and only a small copayment for each office visit to cover the paperwork handled by the HMO; (2) A organization of health care personnel and facilities that provides a comprehensive range of health services to an enrolled population for a fixed sum of money paid in advance for a specified period of time. These health services include a wide variety of medical treatments and consults, inpatient and outpatient hospitalization, home health service, ambulance service, and sometimes dental and pharmacy services. The HMO may be organized as a group model, an individual practice association (IPA), a network model or a staff model.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-305R00000X">305R00000X</a></td><td>Preferred Provider Organization</td><td>A group of physicians and/or hospitals who contract with an employer to provide services to their employees. In a PPO, the patient may got to the physician of his/her choice, even if that physician does not participate in the PPO, but the patient receives care at a lower benefit level.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-305S00000X">305S00000X</a></td><td>Point of Service</td><td>This product may also be called an open-ended HMO and offers a transition product incorporating features of both HMOs and PPOs. Beneficiaries are enrolled in an HMO but have the option to go outside the networks for an additional cost.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-310400000X">310400000X</a></td><td>Assisted Living Facility</td><td>A facility providing supportive services to individuals who can function independently in most areas of activity, but need assistance and/or monitoring to assure safety and well being.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3104A0625X">3104A0625X</a></td><td>Assisted Living Facility (Mental Illness)</td><td>A facility providing supportive services to individuals who can function independently in most areas of activity, but need special guidance, assistance and/or monitoring as the result of a psychiatric problem.  This type of facility requires a staff with special training in mental health training and dealing with psychiatric emergencies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3104A0630X">3104A0630X</a></td><td>Assisted Living Facility (Behavioral Disturbances)</td><td>A facility providing supportive services to individuals who can function independently in most areas of activity, but exhibit abnormal behavioral responses and habits and therefore need special guidance, assistance and/or monitoring to assure safety and well being.  This type of facility requires a staff with special training in dealing with and redirecting negative, violent or destructive behaviors.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-310500000X">310500000X</a></td><td>Mental Illness Intermediate Care Facility</td><td>A nursing facility that provides an intermediate level of nursing care to individuals whose functional abilities are significantly compromise by mental illness.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-311500000X">311500000X</a></td><td>Alzheimer Center (Dementia Center)</td><td>A freestanding facility or special care unit of a long term care facility focusing on patient care of individuals diagnosed with dementia or Alzheimer's Disease or their related diseases. Six elements of the facility/unit set it apart from other (the rest of the) facilities(y):  Admission of residents with dementia (including those with Alzheimer's disease);  Staff who are specially selected, trained, and supervised;  Activities that are specifically designed for the cognitively impaired;  A marketing of a special care unit in brochures;  A high level of family involvement; and  A physical environment designed to keep residents safe and segregated from other populations.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-311Z00000X">311Z00000X</a></td><td>Custodial Care Facility</td><td>A facility providing care that serves to assist an individual in the activities of daily living, such as assistance in walking, getting in and out of bed, bathing, dressing, feeding, and using the toilet, preparation of special diets, and supervision of medication that usually can be self-administered. Custodial care essentially is personal care that does not require the continuing attention of trained medical or paramedical personnel.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-311ZA0620X">311ZA0620X</a></td><td>Adult Care Home Facility</td><td>A custodial care facility providing supportive and personal care services to disabled and/or elderly individuals who cannot function independently in most areas of activity and need assistance and monitoring to enable them to remain in a home like environment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-313M00000X">313M00000X</a></td><td>Nursing Facility/Intermediate Care Facility</td><td>An institution (or a distinct part of an institution) which- (1) is primarily engaged in providing to residents- (A) skilled nursing care and related services for residents who require medical or nursing care, (B) rehabilitation services for the rehabilitation of injured, disabled, or sick persons, or, on a regular basis, health-related care and services to individuals who because of their mental or physical condition require care and services (above the level of room and board) which can be made available to them only through institutional facilities, and is not primarily for the care and treatment of mental diseases; (2) has in effect a transfer agreement with one or more hospitals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-314000000X">314000000X</a></td><td>Skilled Nursing Facility</td><td>(1) A skilled nursing facility is a facility or distinct part of an institution whose primary function is to provide medical, continuous nursing, and other health and social services to patients who are not in an acute phase of illness requiring services in a hospital, but who require primary restorative or skilled nursing services on an inpatient basis above the level of intermediate or custodial care in order to reach a degree of body functioning to permit self care in essential daily living. It meets any licensing or certification standards et forth by the jurisdiction where it is located. A skilled nursing facility may be a freestanding facility or part of a hospital that has been certified by Medicare to admit patients requiring subacute care and rehabilitation; (2) Provides non-acute medical and skilled nursing care services, therapy and social services under the supervision of a licensed registered nurse on a 24-hour basis.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3140N1450X">3140N1450X</a></td><td>Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility</td><td>A nursing care facility designed and staffed for the provision of nursing care and appropriate educational and habilitative/rehabilitative services to children with multiple, complex or profound disabilities that can not be cared for in a less restrictive environment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-315D00000X">315D00000X</a></td><td>Inpatient Hospice</td><td>A provider organization, or distinct part of the organization, which renders an interdisciplinary program providing palliative care, chiefly medical relief of pain and supporting services, which addresses the emotional, social, financial, and legal needs of terminally ill patients and their families where an institutional care environment is required for the patient.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-315P00000X">315P00000X</a></td><td>Intellectual Disabilities Intermediate Care Facility</td><td>An intermediate care facility providing services for individuals with intellectual disabilities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174200000X">174200000X</a></td><td>Meals Provider</td><td>A public or privately owned facility providing meals to individuals traveling long distances or receiving prolonged outpatient medical services away from home.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-177F00000X">177F00000X</a></td><td>Lodging Provider</td><td>A public or privately owned facility providing overnight lodging to individuals traveling long distances or receiving prolonged outpatient medical services away from home.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-320600000X">320600000X</a></td><td>Intellectual and/or Developmental Disabilities Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>A residential facility that provides habilitation services and other care and treatment to adults or children diagnosed with developmental and intellectual disabilities and are not able to live independently.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-320700000X">320700000X</a></td><td>Physical Disabilities Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>A residential facility that provides habilitation services and other care and treatment to adults or children diagnosed with physical disabilities and are not able to live independently.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-320800000X">320800000X</a></td><td>Mental Illness Community Based Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>A home-like residential facility providing psychiatric treatment and psycho/social rehabilitative services to individuals diagnosed with mental illness.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-320900000X">320900000X</a></td><td>Intellectual and/or Developmental Disabilities Community Based Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>A home-like residential facility providing habilitation, support and monitoring services to individuals diagnosed with intellectual and/or developmental disabilities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-322D00000X">322D00000X</a></td><td>Emotionally Disturbed Childrens' Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>A residential facility that provides habilitation services and other care and treatment to children diagnosed with mental health illness, behavioral issues, and intellectual disabilities and are not able to live independently.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-323P00000X">323P00000X</a></td><td>Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facility</td><td>A residential treatment facility (RTF) is a facility or distinct part of a facility that provides to children and adolescents, a total, twenty-four hour, therapeutically planned group living and learning situation where distinct and individualized psychotherapeutic interventions can take place. Residential treatment is a specific level of care to be differentiated from acute, intermediate, and long-term hospital care, when the least restrictive environment is maintained to allow for normalization of the patient's surroundings. The RTF must be both physically and programmatically distinct if it is a part or subunit of a larger treatment program. An RTF is organized and professionally staffed to provide residential treatment of mental disorders to children and adolescents who have sufficient intellectual potential to respond to active treatment (that is, for whom it can reasonably be assumed that treatment of the mental disorder will result in an improved ability to function outside the RTF) for whom outpatient treatment, partial hospitalization or protected and structured environment is medically or psychologically necessary</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-324500000X">324500000X</a></td><td>Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Facility</td><td>A facility or distinct part of a facility that provides a 24 hr therapeutically planned living and rehabilitative intervention environment for the treatment of individuals with disorders in the abuse of drugs, alcohol, and other substances.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3245S0500X">3245S0500X</a></td><td>Children's Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Facility</td><td>A facility or distinct part of a facility that provides a 24 hr therapeutically planned living and rehabilitative intervention environment for the treatment of children with disorders in the use of drugs, alcohol, and other substances.  Medical and supportive counseling services and education services are included.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-385H00000X">385H00000X</a></td><td>Respite Care</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-385HR2050X">385HR2050X</a></td><td>Respite Care Camp</td><td>A camping facility that provides specialized respite care to individuals requiring enhanced services to enable them to remain in the community, (e.g., those with developmental delays, intellectual disabilities, mental/behavioral disorders). The staff must have training in working with the target populations and dealing with emergency situations which might be related to or exacerbate the individual's condition.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-385HR2055X">385HR2055X</a></td><td>Child Mental Illness Respite Care</td><td>A facility or distinct part of a facility that provides short term, residential care to children, diagnosed with mental illness, as respite for the regular caregivers.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-385HR2060X">385HR2060X</a></td><td>Child Intellectual and/or Developmental Disabilities Respite Care</td><td>A facility or distinct part of a facility that provides short term, residential care to children diagnosed with intellectual and/or developmental disabilities as respite for the regular caregivers.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-385HR2065X">385HR2065X</a></td><td>Child Physical Disabilities Respite Care</td><td>A facility or distinct part of a facility that providers short term, residential care to children, diagnosed with complex or profound disabilities as respite for the regular caregivers.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-331L00000X">331L00000X</a></td><td>Blood Bank</td><td>An institution (organization or distinct part thereof) that performs, or is responsible for the performance of, the collection, processing, storage and/or issuance of human blood and blood components, intended for transfusion. The institution may also collect, process, and/or distribute human tissue, including bone marrow and peripheral blood progenitor cells, intended for transplantation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332000000X">332000000X</a></td><td>Military/U.S. Coast Guard Pharmacy</td><td>A Department of Defense (DoD) or U.S. Coast Guard entity whose primary function is to store, prepare and dispense pharmaceuticals and other associated items to Uniformed Services beneficiaries.  These pharmacies may be associated with a DoD or U.S. Coast Guard clinic, DoD Hospital or freestanding.  Usually associated with outpatient services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332100000X">332100000X</a></td><td>Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Pharmacy</td><td>Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Pharmacy means any place under VA jurisdiction where drugs are dispensed and Pharmaceutical Care is provided to enrolled Veterans, by licensed pharmacists. The Pharmacy is reviewed by JCAHO, utilizes the VA hospital's DEA number, and has a designated NCPDP number. VA facility pharmacies include Inpatient (Institutional), Outpatient, Consolidated Mail Outpatient Pharmacies (CMOPs), Research, Addiction Treatment Centers, Long Term Care and Community Based Outpatient Clinics Pharmacies. The VHA Pharmacy Benefits Management - Strategic Healthcare Group has oversight for professional and practice activities of VA Pharmacies. Each pharmacy is under the direct supervision of a U.S. or U.S. territory licensed pharmacist, and has staffing to meet its designated scope of service.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332800000X">332800000X</a></td><td>Indian Health Service/Tribal/Urban Indian Health (I/T/U) Pharmacy</td><td>An Indian Health Service/Tribal/Urban Indian Health (I/T/U) Pharmacy means a pharmacy operated by the Indian Health Service, an Indian tribe or tribal organization, or an urban Indian organization, all of which are defined in Section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, 25 U.S.C. 1603.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332900000X">332900000X</a></td><td>Non-Pharmacy Dispensing Site</td><td>A site other than a pharmacy that dispenses medicinal preparations under the supervision of a physician to patients for self-administration. (e.g. physician offices, ER, Urgent Care Centers, Rural Health Facilities, etc.)</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332B00000X">332B00000X</a></td><td>Durable Medical Equipment &amp; Medical Supplies</td><td>A supplier of medical equipment such as respirators, wheelchairs, home dialysis systems, or monitoring systems, that are prescribed by a physician for a patient's use in the home and that are usable for an extended period of time.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332BC3200X">332BC3200X</a></td><td>Customized Equipment (DME)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332BD1200X">332BD1200X</a></td><td>Dialysis Equipment &amp; Supplies (DME)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332BN1400X">332BN1400X</a></td><td>Nursing Facility Supplies (DME)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332BP3500X">332BP3500X</a></td><td>Parenteral &amp; Enteral Nutrition Supplies (DME)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332BX2000X">332BX2000X</a></td><td>Oxygen Equipment &amp; Supplies (DME)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332G00000X">332G00000X</a></td><td>Eye Bank</td><td>An eye bank procures and distributes eyes for transplant, education and research. To promote patient safety, donated eyes and donor medial histories are evaluated based on strict Eye Bank Association of America Medical Standards</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332H00000X">332H00000X</a></td><td>Eyewear Supplier</td><td>An organization that provides spectacles, contact lenses, and other vision enhancement devices prescribed by an optometrist or ophthalmologist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332S00000X">332S00000X</a></td><td>Hearing Aid Equipment</td><td>The manufacture and/or sale of electronic hearing aids, their component parts, and related products and services on a national basis.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-332U00000X">332U00000X</a></td><td>Home Delivered Meals</td><td>Home-delivered meals are those services or activities designed to prepare and deliver one or more meals a day to an individual's residence in order to prevent institutionalization, malnutrition, and feelings of isolation. Component services or activities may include the cost of personnel, equipment, and food; assessment of nutritional and dietary needs; nutritional education and counseling; socialization services; and information and referral.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-333300000X">333300000X</a></td><td>Emergency Response System Companies</td><td>A supplier of a personal emergency response system (PERS), which is an electronic device that enables a patient to receive emergency assistance when needed. The PERS is one of two different methodologies of notification: (1) where the patient summons emergency assistance themselves directly through the device or (2) emergency assistance is summoned through secure activation by the caretaker/guardian, which sends the device location to emergency responders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-333600000X">333600000X</a></td><td>Pharmacy</td><td>A facility used by pharmacists for the compounding and dispensing of medicinal preparations and other associated professional and administrative services. A pharmacy is a facility whose primary function is to store, prepare and legally dispense prescription drugs under the professional supervision of a licensed pharmacist. It meets any licensing or certification standards set forth by the jurisdiction where it is located.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336C0002X">3336C0002X</a></td><td>Clinic Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy in a clinic, emergency room or hospital (outpatient) that dispenses medications to patients for self-administration under the supervision of a pharmacist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336C0003X">3336C0003X</a></td><td>Community/Retail Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy where pharmacists store, prepare, and dispense medicinal preparations and/or prescriptions for a local patient population in accordance with federal and state law; counsel patients and caregivers (sometimes independent of the dispensing process); administer vaccinations; and provide other professional services associated with pharmaceutical care such as health screenings, consultative services with other health care providers, collaborative practice, disease state management, and education classes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336C0004X">3336C0004X</a></td><td>Compounding Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy that specializes in the preparation of components into a drug preparation as the result of a Practitioner's Prescription Drug Order or initiative based on the Practitioner/Patient/Pharmacist relationship in the course of professional practice.  A compounding pharmacy utilizes specialized equipment and specially designed facilities necessary to meet the legal and quality requirements of its scope of compounding practice.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336H0001X">3336H0001X</a></td><td>Home Infusion Therapy Pharmacy</td><td>Pharmacy-based, decentralized patient care organization with expertise in USP 797-compliant sterile drug compounding that provides care to patients with acute or chronic conditions generally pertaining to parenteral administration of drugs, biologics and nutritional formulae administered through catheters and/or needles in home and alternate sites. Extensive professional pharmacy services, care coordination, infusion nursing services, supplies and equipment are provided to optimize efficacy and compliance.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336I0012X">3336I0012X</a></td><td>Institutional Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy in a hospital (inpatient) or institution used by pharmacists for the compounding and delivery of medicinal preparations to be administered to the patient by nursing or other authorized personnel. Institutional Pharmacies also counsel patients and caregivers; administer vaccinations; and provide other professional services associated with pharmaceutical care such as health screenings, consultative services with other health care providers, collaborative practice, disease state management, and education classes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336L0003X">3336L0003X</a></td><td>Long Term Care Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy that dispenses medicinal preparations delivered to patients residing within an intermediate or skilled nursing facility, including intermediate care facilities, hospice, assisted living facilities, group homes, and other forms of congregate living arrangements.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336M0002X">3336M0002X</a></td><td>Mail Order Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy where pharmacists compound or dispense prescriptions or other medications in accordance with federal and state law, using common carriers to deliver the medications to patient or their caregivers. Mail order pharmacies counsel patients and caregivers (sometimes independent of the dispensing process) through telephone or email contact and provide other professional services associated with pharmaceutical care appropriate to the setting. Mail order pharmacies are licensed as a Mail Order Pharmacy in the state where they are located and may also be licensed or registered as nonresident pharmacies in other states.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336M0003X">3336M0003X</a></td><td>Managed Care Organization Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy owned by a managed care organization (MCO) used by pharmacists for the compounding and dispensing of medicinal preparations to that MCO's covered members only.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336N0007X">3336N0007X</a></td><td>Nuclear Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy dedicated to the compounding and dispensing of radioactive materials for use in nuclear imaging and nuclear medical procedures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3336S0011X">3336S0011X</a></td><td>Specialty Pharmacy</td><td>A pharmacy that dispenses generally low volume and high cost medicinal preparations to patients who are undergoing intensive therapies for illnesses that are generally chronic, complex and potentially life threatening. Often these therapies require specialized delivery and administration.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-335E00000X">335E00000X</a></td><td>Prosthetic/Orthotic Supplier</td><td>An organization that provides prosthetic and orthotic care which may include, but is not limited to, patient evaluation, prosthesis or orthosis design, fabrication, fitting and modification to treat limb loss for purposes of restoring physiological function and/or cosmesis or to treat a neuromusculoskeletal disorder or acquired condition.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-335G00000X">335G00000X</a></td><td>Medical Foods Supplier</td><td>A supplier of special replacement foods for clients with errors of metabolism that prohibit them from eating a regular diet.   Medical foods are lacking in the compounds which cause complications of the metabolic disorder, and are not generally available in grocery stores, health food stores, or pharmacies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-335U00000X">335U00000X</a></td><td>Organ Procurement Organization</td><td>A federally designated organization that works with hospital personnel in retrieval of organs for transplantation. The federal government designates an OPO's service area and the hospitals with which an OPO is to establish working relationships.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-335V00000X">335V00000X</a></td><td>Portable X-ray and/or Other Portable Diagnostic Imaging Supplier</td><td>A supplier that provides one or more of the following portable services, including but not limited to, x-ray, electrocardiogram (EKG), long-term EKG (Holter Monitor), bone densitometry, sonography, and other imaging services in accordance with all state and federal requirements, under the general supervision of a qualified physician.  All necessary resources are transported to the patient's location where the services are performed.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-341600000X">341600000X</a></td><td>Ambulance</td><td>An emergency vehicle used for transporting patients to a health care facility after injury or illness. Types of ambulances used in the United States include ground (surface) ambulance, rotor-wing (helicopter), and fixed-wing aircraft (airplane).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3416A0800X">3416A0800X</a></td><td>Air Ambulance</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3416L0300X">3416L0300X</a></td><td>Land Ambulance</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3416S0300X">3416S0300X</a></td><td>Water Ambulance</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-341800000X">341800000X</a></td><td>Military/U.S. Coast Guard Transport,</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3418M1110X">3418M1110X</a></td><td>Military or U.S. Coast Guard Ground Transport Ambulance</td><td>Vehicle and staff for patient emergency or non-emergency ground transport. Includes traditional ambulances as well as ambulance buses.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3418M1120X">3418M1120X</a></td><td>Military or U.S. Coast Guard Air Transport Ambulance</td><td>Vehicle and staff for patient emergency or non-emergency air transport.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3418M1130X">3418M1130X</a></td><td>Military or U.S. Coast Guard Water Transport Ambulance</td><td>Vehicle and staff for patient emergency or non-emergency sea/water transport</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-342000000X">342000000X</a></td><td>Transportation Network Company</td><td>A ride-sharing company that provides prearranged or contracted non-emergency medical transportation services to patients through mobile or online technology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-343800000X">343800000X</a></td><td>Secured Medical Transport (VAN)</td><td>A public or privately owned transportation service with vehicles, specially equipped to provide enhanced safety, security and passenger restraint, and staffed by one or more individuals trained to work with patients in crisis situations resulting from mental or emotional illness and/or substance abuse.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-343900000X">343900000X</a></td><td>Non-emergency Medical Transport (VAN)</td><td>A land vehicle with a capacity to meet special height, clearance, access, and seating, for the conveyance of persons in non-emergency situations. The vehicle may or may not be required to meet local county or state regulations.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-344600000X">344600000X</a></td><td>Taxi</td><td>A land commercial vehicle used for the transporting of persons in non-emergency situations. The vehicle meets local, county or state regulations set forth by the jurisdictions where it is located.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-344800000X">344800000X</a></td><td>Air Carrier</td><td>An air company that the Federal Aviation Administration, the certificate-holding district office (CHDO), regional Flight Standards Division (RFSD) offices, and AFS-900 has verified that the company is capable of operating safely and that it complies with the regulations and standards prescribed by the Administrator.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-347B00000X">347B00000X</a></td><td>Bus</td><td>A public or private organization or business licensed to provide bus services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-347C00000X">347C00000X</a></td><td>Private Vehicle</td><td>An individual paid to provide non-emergency transportation using their privately owned/leased vehicle.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-347D00000X">347D00000X</a></td><td>Train</td><td>An organization or business licensed to provide passenger train service, including light rail, subway, and traditional services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-347E00000X">347E00000X</a></td><td>Transportation Broker</td><td>An organization that provides transportation for individuals who need access to medical care or services and have no other means of transportation. Transportation includes, but is not limited to, wheelchair van, taxi, stretcher car, bus passes and tickets, and secured transportation.</td></tr></table></li></ul></div>{% endraw %}