{% raw %}<h3>Logical Definition (CLD)</h3>
<div xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" data-fhir="generated"><p class="res-header-id"></p><a name="IndividualAndGroupSpecialtiesVS"> </a><a name="hcIndividualAndGroupSpecialtiesVS"> </a>
<ul><li>Include these codes as defined in <a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4"><code>http://nucc.org/provider-taxonomy</code></a><span style="opacity: 0.5" title="Version is not explicitly stated. When building this specification, the most recent version 22.1 has been used"> version ⏿22.1</span><table class="none" data-fhir="generated"><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap"><b>Code</b></td><td><b>Display</b></td><td><b>Definition</b></td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101200000X">101200000X</a></td><td>Drama Therapist</td><td>Drama therapists are trained in the intentional use of drama and theatre processes to achieve therapeutic goals. Drama therapists provide psychotherapy for individuals living with mental health and behavioral concerns that may result in psychological suffering, impaired relationships, or distress in daily activities. Drama therapy promotes wellness and healing within the context of a therapeutic relationship for individuals of varying ability levels across the lifespan. Drama therapy can take many forms depending on individual and group needs, skill and ability levels, interests, and therapeutic goals. Processes and techniques may include improvisation, theater games, storytelling, and enactment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101Y00000X">101Y00000X</a></td><td>Counselor</td><td>A provider who is trained and educated in the performance of behavior health services through interpersonal communications and analysis. Training and education at the specialty level usually requires a master's degree and clinical experience and supervision for licensure or certification.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101YA0400X">101YA0400X</a></td><td>Addiction (Substance Use Disorder) Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101YM0800X">101YM0800X</a></td><td>Mental Health Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101YP1600X">101YP1600X</a></td><td>Pastoral Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101YP2500X">101YP2500X</a></td><td>Professional Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-101YS0200X">101YS0200X</a></td><td>School Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-102L00000X">102L00000X</a></td><td>Psychoanalyst</td><td>Psychoanalysis is a comprehensive, theoretical framework which, when applied to a treatment process, consists of an intensive verbal, therapeutic relationship between an analyst and an analysand which aims for symptom relief, emotional growth, and personal integration. The psychoanalytic treatment process includes, but is not limited to, the recognition of unconscious processes and conflicts; the significance of developmental influences; and the impact of resistances, defenses, transference and countertransference phenomena. Treatment is enhanced by an understanding developed in the analyst's training and personal analysis of unconscious manifestations, such as dreams, slips of the tongue, fantasies and day dreams. Psychoanalytic technique varies in relation to theoretical orientation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-102X00000X">102X00000X</a></td><td>Poetry Therapist</td><td>A medical or mental health professional who has attained credentials after satisfactorily completing a poetry therapy training program approved by the National Federation for Biblio/Poetry Therapy (NFBPT). Training includes didactic work, peer group experience, and supervised practicum.&lt;br/&gt;An NFBPT credentialed certified poetry therapist (CPT) or registered poetry therapist (PTR) integrates discussion of published literature and reflective or creative writing into the psychotherapeutic process to achieve goals of emotional well-being, symptom reduction, and improved interpersonal communication.&lt;br/&gt;Certified poetry therapists and registered poetry therapists are licensed mental health professionals with advanced training in the theory and practice of poetry therapy. CPTs and PTRs are qualified to work independently with emotionally troubled populations in clinical, rehabilitative, community and educational institutions. They also work with emotionally healthy individuals adjusting to developmental issues, life crises, or disabilities. The PTR completes an advanced level of training and fieldwork, commensurate with the highest levels of clinical practice. The terms poetry therapy, applied poetry facilitation, journal therapy, bibliotherapy, biblio/poetry therapy, and poetry/journal therapy reflect the interactive use of literature and/or writing to promote personal growth and emotional healing. In addition to poetry, poetry therapy applies all forms or written and spoken language including story, myth, folk and fairy tale and other genres of poetic expression as well as journal, memoir, and narrative. The poetry therapy process integrates discussion of published literature and reflective or creative writing for expression and communication of thoughts and feelings to facilitate participants' emotional well-being. The field of poetry therapy encompasses all of these modalities, though only a duly trained and licensed clinical practitioner can be credentialed as CPT or PTR.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103G00000X">103G00000X</a></td><td>Clinical Neuropsychologist</td><td>A clinical psychologist who applies principles of assessment and intervention based upon the scientific study of human behavior as it relates to normal and abnormal functioning of the central nervous system. The specialty is dedicated to enhancing the understanding of brain-behavior relationships and the application of such knowledge to human problems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103K00000X">103K00000X</a></td><td>Behavioral Analyst</td><td>A behavior analyst is qualified by at least a master's degree and Behavior Analyst Certification Board certification and/or a state-issued credential (such as a license) to practice behavior analysis independently. Behavior analysts provide the required supervision to assistant behavior analysts and behavior technicians. A behavior analyst delivers services consistent with the dimensions of applied behavior analysis. Common services may include, but are not limited to, conducting behavioral assessments, analyzing data, writing and revising behavior-analytic treatment plans, training others to implement components of treatment plans, and overseeing implementation of treatment plans.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103T00000X">103T00000X</a></td><td>Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist is an individual who is licensed to practice psychology which is defined as the observation, description, evaluation, interpretation, and modification of human behavior by the application of psychological principles, methods, and procedures, for the purpose of preventing or eliminating symptomatic, maladaptive, or undesired behavior and of enhancing interpersonal relationships, work and life adjustment, personal effectiveness, behavioral health, and mental health.  The practice of psychology includes, but is not limited to, psychological testing and the evaluation or assessment of personal characteristics, such as intelligence, personality, abilities, interests, aptitudes, and neuropsychological functioning; counseling, psychoanalysis, psychotherapy, hypnosis, biofeedback, and behavior analysis and therapy; diagnosis and treatment of mental and emotional disorder or disability, alcoholism and substance abuse, disorders of habit or conduct, as well as of the psychological aspects of physical illness, accident, injury, or disability; and psycheducational evaluation, therapy, remediation, and consultation.  Psychological services may be rendered to individuals, families, groups and the public.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TA0400X">103TA0400X</a></td><td>Addiction (Substance Use Disorder) Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist with a proficiency that involves the application of psychological treatment of addiction stemming from the use of alcohol and other psychoactive substances (e.g., nicotine, marijuana, cocaine, heroin) or behavioral addictions (e.g., gambling) with the aim of cessation or reduction of use and/or the amelioration of emotional, behavioral, interpersonal and other problems arising from the addictive behavior.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TA0700X">103TA0700X</a></td><td>Adult Development &amp; Aging Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who specializes in geropsychology, which applies the knowledge and methods of psychology to understanding and helping older persons and their families to maintain well-being, overcome problems and achieve maximum potential during later life. Professional geropsychology appreciates the wide diversity among older adults, the complex ethical issues that can arise in geriatric practice and the importance of interdisciplinary models of care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TB0200X">103TB0200X</a></td><td>Cognitive &amp; Behavioral Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who reflects an experimental-clinical approach distinguished by use of principles of human learning and development and theories of cognitive processing to promote meaningful change in maladaptive human behavior and thinking.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TC0700X">103TC0700X</a></td><td>Clinical Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who provides continuing and comprehensive mental and behavioral health care for individuals and families; consultation to agencies and communities; training, education and supervision; and research-based practice. It is a specialty in breadth -- one that is broadly inclusive of severe psychopathology -- and marked by comprehensiveness and integration of knowledge and skill from a broad array of disciplines within and outside of psychology proper. The scope of clinical psychology encompasses all ages, multiple diversities and varied systems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TC1900X">103TC1900X</a></td><td>Counseling Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who specializes in general practice and health service. It focuses on how people function both personally and in their relationships at all ages. Counseling psychology addresses the emotional, social, work, school and physical health concerns people may have at different stages in their lives, focusing on typical life stresses and more severe issues with which people may struggle as individuals and as a part of families, groups and organizations. Counseling psychologists help people with physical, emotional and mental health issues improve their sense of well-being, alleviate feelings of distress and resolve crises. They also provide assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of more severe psychological symptoms.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TC2200X">103TC2200X</a></td><td>Clinical Child &amp; Adolescent Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who develops and applies scientific knowledge to the delivery of psychological services to infants, toddlers, children and adolescents within their social context.  Of particular importance to the specialty of clinical child psychology is an understanding of the basic psychological needs of children and adolescents, and how the family and other social contexts influence the socio-emotional adjustment, cognitive development, behavioral adaptation and health status of children and adolescents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TE1100X">103TE1100X</a></td><td>Exercise &amp; Sports Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist with a proficiency in sports psychology that uses psychological knowledge and skills to address optimal performance and well-being of athletes, developmental and social aspects of sports participation, and systemic issues associated with sports settings and organizations. APA recognizes sport psychology as a proficiency acquired after a doctoral degree in one of the primary areas of psychology and licensure as a psychologist. This proficiency does not include those who have earned a doctoral degree in sport psychology but are not licensed psychologists. 	 Sport Psychology interventions are designed to assist athletes and other sports participants (e.g., coaches, administrators, parents) from a wide array of settings, levels of competition, and ages, ranging from recreational youth participants to professional and Olympic athletes to master's level performers.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TF0000X">103TF0000X</a></td><td>Family Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist whose specialty is founded on principles of systems theory with the interpersonal system of the family the focus of assessment, intervention and research.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TF0200X">103TF0200X</a></td><td>Forensic Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist whose specialty is characterized by activities primarily intended to provide professional psychological expertise within the judicial and legal systems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TH0004X">103TH0004X</a></td><td>Health Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who specializes in clinical health psychology that investigates and implements clinical services across diverse populations and settings to promote health and well-being and to prevent, treat, and manage illness and disability.  Clinical health psychology sees health as the confluence of psychological, social, cultural, and biological factors and applies this understanding to professional activities including:&lt;br/&gt;* Research&lt;br/&gt;* Clinical service&lt;br/&gt;* Consulting with, educating, and supervising other health care providers and psychologists&lt;br/&gt;* Advising organizations, institutions, the public, and policymakers</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TH0100X">103TH0100X</a></td><td>Health Service Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist, certified/licensed at the independent practice level in his/her state, who is duly trained and experienced in the delivery of direct, preventative, assessment, and therapeutic intervention services to individuals whose growth, adjustment, or functioning is actually impaired or is demonstrably at high risk of impairment (1974).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TM1800X">103TM1800X</a></td><td>Intellectual &amp; Developmental Disabilities Psychologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TP0016X">103TP0016X</a></td><td>Prescribing (Medical) Psychologist</td><td>A licensed, doctoral-level psychologist authorized to prescribe and has undergone specialized education and training in preparation for prescriptive practice and has passed an examination accepted by the state board of psychology relevant to establishing competence for prescribing, and has received from the state board of psychology a current certificate granting prescriptive authority, which has not been revoked or suspended.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TP0814X">103TP0814X</a></td><td>Psychoanalysis Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist whose specialty is distinguished from other specialties by its body of knowledge and its intensive treatment approaches. It aims at structural changes and modifications of a person's personality. Psychoanalysis promotes awareness of unconscious, maladaptive and habitually recurrent patterns of emotion and behavior, allowing previously unconscious aspects of the self to become integrated and promoting optimal functioning, healing and creative expression.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TP2701X">103TP2701X</a></td><td>Group Psychotherapy Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who specializes in group psychology and group psychotherapy that is an evidenced-based specialty that prepares group leaders to identify and capitalize on developmental and healing possibilities embedded in the interpersonal/intrapersonal functioning of individual group members as well as collectively for the group.  Emphasis is placed on the use of group dynamics to assist and treat individual group members.  The specialty is applicable to all age groups, children, adolescents, adults and older adults, for a wide variety of conditions and concerns, and in numerous and diverse settings.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TR0400X">103TR0400X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist who specializes in the study and application of psychological principles on behalf of persons who have disability due to injury or illness. Rehabilitation psychologists, often within teams, assess and treat cognitive, emotional, and functional difficulties, and help people to overcome barriers to participation in life activities. Rehabilitation psychologists are involved in practice, research, and advocacy, with the broad goal of fostering independence and opportunity for people with disabilities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-103TS0200X">103TS0200X</a></td><td>School Psychologist</td><td>A psychologist whose specialty is concerned with the science and practice of psychology with children, youth, families; learners of all ages; and the schooling process. The basic education and training of school psychologists prepares them to provide a range of psychological diagnosis, assessment, intervention, prevention, health promotion, and program development and evaluation services with a special focus on the developmental processes of children and youth within the context of schools, families and other systems.  School psychologists are prepared to intervene at the individual and system level, and develop, implement, and evaluate preventive programs. In these efforts, they conduct ecologically valid assessments and intervene to promote positive learning environments within which children and youth from diverse backgrounds to ensure that all have equal access to effective educational and psychological services that promote healthy development</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-104100000X">104100000X</a></td><td>Social Worker</td><td>A social worker is a person who is qualified by a Social Work degree, and licensed, certified or registered by the state as a social worker to practice within the scope of that license.  A social worker provides assistance and counseling to clients and their families who are dealing with social, emotional and environmental problems. Social work services may be rendered to individuals, families, groups, and the public.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1041C0700X">1041C0700X</a></td><td>Clinical Social Worker</td><td>A social worker who holds a master's or doctoral degree in social work from an accredited school of social work in addition to at least two years of post-master's supervised experience in a clinical setting. The social worker must be licensed, certified, or registered at the clinical level in the jurisdiction of practice. A clinical social worker provides direct services, including interventions focused on interpersonal interactions, intrapsychic dynamics, and life management issues. Clinical social work services are based on bio-psychosocial perspectives. Services consist of assessment, diagnosis, treatment (including psychotherapy and counseling), client-centered advocacy, consultation, evaluation, and prevention of mental illness, emotional, or behavioral disturbances.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1041S0200X">1041S0200X</a></td><td>School Social Worker</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-106E00000X">106E00000X</a></td><td>Assistant Behavior Analyst</td><td>An assistant behavior analyst is qualified by Behavior Analyst Certification Board certification and/or a state-issued license or credential in behavior analysis to practice under the supervision of an appropriately credentialed professional behavior analyst. An assistant behavior analyst delivers services consistent with the dimensions of applied behavior analysis and supervision requirements defined in state laws or regulations and/or national certification standards. Common services may include, but are not limited to, conducting behavioral assessments, analyzing data, writing behavior-analytic treatment plans, training and supervising others in implementation of components of treatment plans, and direct implementation of treatment plans.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-106H00000X">106H00000X</a></td><td>Marriage &amp; Family Therapist</td><td>A marriage and family therapist is a person with a master's degree in marriage and family therapy, or a master's or doctoral degree in a related mental health field with substantially equivalent coursework in marriage and family therapy, who receives supervised clinical experience, or a person who meets the state requirements to practice as a marriage and family therapist.  A marriage and family therapist treats mental and emotional disorders within the context of marriage and family systems.   A marriage and family therapist provides mental health and counseling services to individuals, couples, families, and groups.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-106S00000X">106S00000X</a></td><td>Behavior Technician</td><td>The behavior technician is a paraprofessional who practices under the close, ongoing supervision of a behavior analyst or assistant behavior analyst certified by the Behavior Analyst Certification Board and/or credentialed by a state (such as through licensure). The behavior technician is primarily responsible for the implementation of components of behavior-analytic treatment plans developed by the supervisor. That may include collecting data on treatment targets and conducting certain types of behavioral assessments (e.g., stimulus preference assessments). The behavior technician does not design treatment or assessment plans or procedures but provides services as assigned by the supervisor responsible for his or her work.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111N00000X">111N00000X</a></td><td>Chiropractor</td><td>A provider qualified by a Doctor of Chiropractic (D.C.), licensed by the State and who practices chiropractic medicine -that discipline within the healing arts which deals with the nervous system and its relationship to the spinal column and its interrelationship with other body systems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NI0013X">111NI0013X</a></td><td>Independent Medical Examiner Chiropractor</td><td>A special evaluator not involved with the medical care of the individual examinee that impartially evaluates the care being provided by other practitioners to clarify clinical, disability, liability or other case issues.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NI0900X">111NI0900X</a></td><td>Internist Chiropractor</td><td>The chiropractic internist may serve as a primary care physician or may see patients referred from other providers for evaluation and co-management. Evaluation is focused on the early detection of functional, nutritional, and pathological disorders. A chiropractic internist utilizes the diagnostic instruments necessary for proper examination. In cases where laboratory examination is necessary, a chiropractic internist utilizes a recognized reference laboratory facility. A chiropractic internist may manage his or her own cases or may refer to another specialist when prudent to do so. The chiropractic internist utilizes documented natural therapies, therapeutic lifestyle changes, patient education and other resources to promote patient health and avoidance of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NN0400X">111NN0400X</a></td><td>Neurology Chiropractor</td><td>Chiropractic Neurology is defined as the field of functional neurology that engages the internal - and external environment of the individual in a structured and targeted approach to affect positive changes in the nervous system and consequently the physiology and behavior of an individual. Chiropractic Neurologists are board-certified specialists in non-drug, non-surgical care for those with neurologically based health problems. There are many conditions people suffer from that are in this broad category: learning and attention disorders, headaches, vertigo, pain syndromes, developmental disorders, nerve injury, spinal cord injury, head injury or stroke, movement disorders, and many other conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NN1001X">111NN1001X</a></td><td>Nutrition Chiropractor</td><td>Chiropractic Nutrition is that specialty within the chiropractic profession that deals with the overall factors that affect the patient's ability to maintain the manipulative correction and thus sustain better neurological integrity. The Chiropractic Nutrition Specialist will perform extensive research on the patient's previous health history, ethnicity, and any family history related to what the patient is being treated for. Patients fill out questionnaires concerning dietary and sleep patterns and previous or present symptomology. A nutrition examination would be performed to assess areas such as absorption rates, adrenal function, kidney health, lung health etc. The patient is often instructed on how to check the pH of their saliva and urine, test for the presence of Candida Albicans, etc., at home. Outside laboratory testing includes blood, urine, hair analysis, food allergy testing etc. The patient's prescription and over the counter medications are recorded and analyzed.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NP0017X">111NP0017X</a></td><td>Pediatric Chiropractor</td><td>The Pediatric Chiropractor is a chiropractor with specialized, advanced training and certification in the evaluation, care and management of health and wellness conditions of infancy, childhood and adolescence.  This specialist provides primary, comprehensive, therapeutic and preventative chiropractic health care for newborns through adolescents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NR0200X">111NR0200X</a></td><td>Radiology Chiropractor</td><td>Chiropractic radiology is a referral specialty that provides consultation services at the request of other qualified doctors. Chiropractic radiologists provide consultation in health care facilities (private offices, hospitals and teaching institutions) to meet the needs of referring doctors and their patients. The quality of the consultative services by the chiropractic radiologist in independent practice is reflected by the quality of their professional credentials. Chiropractic radiologists recommend, supervise, and interpret radiologic studies as well as advanced imaging procedures. They advise referring physicians on the necessity and appropriateness of radiologic services and whether to select or to avoid certain diagnostic or clinical procedures. In some instances the radiologist may act as a private practitioner. They may conduct research and apply diagnostic radiologic procedures and may be called upon to act as expert witnesses in matters of litigation.&lt;br/&gt;Chiropractic radiologists are also concerned with imaging technology including image production, demonstration of normal and abnormal anatomy, and the interaction of energy and matter. The advances in the technological facets of radiology are so rapid that only qualified radiologists can reasonably be expected to maintain the high level of proficiency required to supervise and interpret these procedures. The practice of radiology continuously involves the application of this technology to patient imaging and treatment. It is now well recognized that chiropractic radiology includes, but is not limited to, plain film radiography, fluoroscopy, tomography, ultrasonography, radioisotope imaging, computed tomography, digital radiography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Individual practices may vary by intent, licensure, and scope of practice laws.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NR0400X">111NR0400X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Chiropractor</td><td>Rehabilitation is the discipline focused on restoring a patient's functional abilities to pre-injury or pre-disease status. Functional abilities are defined as those activities in one's daily life, work, or sports and recreational activities that an individual participates in. Relevant impairments (e.g. strength, endurance, flexibility, motor control, etc.) are often intermediate goals of rehabilitation, but the final goal of successful care is return to participation in activities in which the patient was successful before the onset of the injury or disease. Essential to a rehabilitation approach is a focus on patient-centered outcomes such as independence and self-management or self-care skills.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NS0005X">111NS0005X</a></td><td>Sports Physician Chiropractor</td><td>A sports chiropractor is uniquely trained to provide care and treatment of injuries or illness resulting from sports and physical fitness activities.  Doctors of Chiropractic with the Diplomate American Chiropractic Board of Sports Physicians (DACBSP) or the Certified Chiropractic Sports Physician (CCSP), sport specialty certifications from the American Chiropractic Board of Sports Physicians, have advanced training in the assessment, management and rehabilitation of sports related injuries. Extremity care, rehabilitation and soft tissue procedures are common skills utilized by these doctors. The specialty training covers a broad spectrum from the pediatric athlete to professional and Olympic athletes, and everything in between, using a variety of techniques and modalities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NT0100X">111NT0100X</a></td><td>Thermography Chiropractor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NX0100X">111NX0100X</a></td><td>Occupational Health Chiropractor</td><td>Occupational Health is that specialty within the chiropractic profession that deals with the prevention and management of work related injuries. It also considers and assists clients with State and Federal Compliance assistance. Occupational Health goes much farther than simply treating injured workers however. This may mean working with clients to promote optimum safety and ergonomic principles, interacting with the injured worker to promote safety and prevent future injuries, assisting a company with accident investigation to identify root cause, redesigning a workstation to eliminate hazards, working with safety teams, providing training programs etc. The list of potential services that the specialist can interact with a client company or patient is lengthy and varied involving both in office services as well as on site services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-111NX0800X">111NX0800X</a></td><td>Orthopedic Chiropractor</td><td>Chiropractic Orthopedics is defined as that branch of chiropractic medicine that includes the continued acquisition of knowledge relative to both normal functions and diseases of the human body as they relate to the bones, joints, capsules, discs, muscles, ligaments, tendons, their complete neurological and vascular components, referred organ systems and contiguous tissues. This also includes the development and perfection of skills relative to health maintenance when such exists and when not, the investigations, historical review, physical detection, correlative diagnosis development and complete management of any disorder within the bounds defined herein. Also necessary is the delivery of the combined knowledge and skill on a primary basis to patients who both need and desire this service to the eventual outcome of remissions, whenever resolution is not readily achievable. In addition the certified chiropractic orthopedist provides consultation services at the request of other qualified doctors seeking assistance in the care of their patients. The chiropractic orthopedist may also engage in the teaching and or research of subjects and materials relevant to pursuing the quest for knowledge in the ever changing field of the orthopedic specialty.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-122300000X">122300000X</a></td><td>Dentist</td><td>A dentist is a person qualified by a doctorate in dental surgery (D.D.S.) or dental medicine (D.M.D.), licensed by the state to practice dentistry, and practicing within the scope of that license.  There is no difference between the two degrees: dentists who have a DMD or DDS have the same education.  Universities have the prerogative to determine what degree is awarded.  Both degrees use the same curriculum requirements set by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation.  Generally, three or more years of undergraduate education plus four years of dental school is required to graduate and become a general dentist.  State licensing boards accept either degree as equivalent, and both degrees allow licensed individuals to practice the same scope of general dentistry.  Additional post-graduate training is required to become a dental specialist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223D0001X">1223D0001X</a></td><td>Public Health Dentist</td><td>The science and art of preventing and controlling dental diseases and promoting dental health through organized community efforts.  It is that form of dental practice that serves the community as a patient rather than the individual.  It is concerned with the dental health education of the public, with applied dental research, and with the administration of group dental care programs as well as the prevention and control of dental diseases on a community basis.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223D0004X">1223D0004X</a></td><td>Dentist Anesthesiologist</td><td>A dentist who has successfully completed an accredited postdoctoral anesthesiology residency training program for dentists of two or more years duration, in accord with Commission on Dental Accreditation's Standards for Dental Anesthesiology Residency Programs, and/or meets the eligibility requirements for examination by the American Dental Board of Anesthesiology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223E0200X">1223E0200X</a></td><td>Endodontist</td><td>The branch of dentistry that is concerned with the morphology, physiology and pathology of the human dental pulp and periradicular tissues.  Its study and practice encompass the basic and clinical sciences including biology of the normal pulp, the etiology, diagnosis, prevention and treatment of diseases and injuries of the pulp and associated periradicular conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223G0001X">1223G0001X</a></td><td>General Practice Dentistry</td><td>A general dentist is the primary dental care provider for patients of all ages. The general dentist is responsible for the diagnosis, treatment, management and overall coordination of services related to patients' oral health needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223P0106X">1223P0106X</a></td><td>Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology Dentist</td><td>The specialty of dentistry and discipline of pathology that deals with the nature, identification, and management of diseases affecting the oral and maxillofacial regions.  It is a science that investigates the causes, processes, and effects of these diseases.  The practice of oral and maxillofacial pathology includes research and diagnosis of diseases using clinical, radiographic, microscopic, biochemical, or other examinations.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223P0221X">1223P0221X</a></td><td>Pediatric Dentist</td><td>An age-defined specialty that provides both primary and comprehensive preventive and therapeutic oral health care for infants and children through adolescence, including those with special health care needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223P0300X">1223P0300X</a></td><td>Periodontist</td><td>That specialty of dentistry which encompasses the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the supporting and surrounding tissues of the teeth or their substitutes and the maintenance of the health, function and esthetics of these structures and tissues.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223P0700X">1223P0700X</a></td><td>Prosthodontist</td><td>That branch of dentistry pertaining to the restoration and maintenance of oral functions, comfort, appearance and health of the patient by the restoration of natural teeth and/or the replacement of missing teeth and contiguous oral and maxillofacial tissues with artificial substitutes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223S0112X">1223S0112X</a></td><td>Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (Dentist)</td><td>The specialty of dentistry which includes the diagnosis, surgical and adjunctive treatment of diseases, injuries and defects involving both the functional and esthetic aspects of the hard and soft tissues of the oral and maxillofacial region.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223X0008X">1223X0008X</a></td><td>Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Dentist</td><td>The specialty of dentistry and discipline of radiology concerned with the production and interpretation of images and data produced by all modalities of radiant energy that are used for the diagnosis and management of diseases, disorders and conditions of the oral and maxillofacial region.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223X0400X">1223X0400X</a></td><td>Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedic Dentist</td><td>That area of dentistry concerned with the supervision, guidance and correction of the growing or mature dentofacial structures, including those conditions that require movement of teeth or correction of malrelationships and malformations of their related structures and the adjustment of relationships between and among teeth and facial bones by the application of forces and/or the stimulation and redirection of functional forces within the craniofacial complex.  Major responsibilities of orthodontic practice include the diagnosis, prevention, interception and treatment of all forms of malocclusion of the teeth and associated alterations in their surrounding structures; the design, application and control of functional and corrective appliances; and the guidance of the dentition and its supporting structures to attain and maintain optimum occlusal relations in physiologic and esthetic harmony among facial and cranial structures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1223X2210X">1223X2210X</a></td><td>Orofacial Pain Dentist</td><td>A dentist who assesses, diagnoses, and treats patients with complex chronic orofacial pain and dysfunction disorders, oromotor and jaw behavior disorders, and chronic head/neck pain.  The dentist has successfully completed an accredited postdoctoral orofacial pain residency training program for dentists of two or more years duration, in accord with the Commission on Dental Accreditation's Standards for Orofacial Pain Residency Programs, and/or meets the requirements for examination and board certification by the American Board of Orofacial Pain.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-122400000X">122400000X</a></td><td>Denturist</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-124Q00000X">124Q00000X</a></td><td>Dental Hygienist</td><td>An individual who has completed an accredited dental hygiene education program, and an individual who has been licensed by a state board of dental examiners to provide preventive care services under the supervision of a dentist.  Functions that may be legally delegated to the dental hygienist vary based on the needs of the dentist, the educational preparation of the dental hygienist and state dental practice acts and regulations, but always include, at a minimum, scaling and polishing the teeth.  To avoid misleading the public, no occupational title other than dental hygienist should be used to describe this dental auxiliary.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-125J00000X">125J00000X</a></td><td>Dental Therapist</td><td>A Dental Therapist is an individual who has completed an accredited or non-accredited dental therapy program and who has been authorized by the relevant state board or a tribal entity to provide services within the scope of their practice under the supervision of a dentist. Functions that may be delegated to the dental therapist vary based on the needs of the dentist, the educational preparation of the dental therapist and state dental practice acts and regulations.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-125K00000X">125K00000X</a></td><td>Advanced Practice Dental Therapist</td><td>An Advanced Practice Dental Therapist is:&lt;br/&gt;(1) A dental therapist who has completed additional training beyond basic dental therapy education and provides dental services in accordance with state advanced practice dental therapist laws or statutes; or&lt;br/&gt;(2) A dental hygienist with a graduate degree in advanced dental therapy prepared for independent and interdependent decision making and direct accountability for clinical judgment across the dental health care continuum.&lt;br/&gt;The individual has been authorized by the relevant state board or a tribal entity to provide services under the remote supervision of a dentist. The functions of the advanced practice dental therapist vary based on the needs of the dentist, the educational preparation of the advanced practice dental therapist and state dental practice acts and regulations.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-125Q00000X">125Q00000X</a></td><td>Oral Medicinist</td><td>A dentist with advanced training specializing in the recognition and treatment of oral conditions resulting from the interrelationship between oral disease and systemic health. The Oral Medicinist manages clinical and non-surgical treatment of non-dental pathologies affecting the oral and maxillofacial region, such as cancer, organ transplants, and acute and chronic pain. Activities include provision of interdisciplinary patient care in collaboration with medical specialists and other dentists in hospitals and outpatient medical clinics in the management of patients with complex medical conditions requiring multidisciplinary healthcare intervention.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-126800000X">126800000X</a></td><td>Dental Assistant</td><td>An individual who may or may not have completed an accredited dental assisting education program and who aids the dentist in providing patient care services and performs other nonclinical duties in the dental office or other patient care facility.  The scope of the patient care functions that may be legally delegated to the dental assistant varies based on the needs of the dentist the educational preparation of the dental assistant and state dental practice acts and regulations.  Patient care services are provided under the supervision of a dentist.  To avoid misleading the public, no occupational title other than dental assistant should be used to describe this dental auxiliary.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-126900000X">126900000X</a></td><td>Dental Laboratory Technician</td><td>An individual who has the skill and knowledge in the fabrication of dental appliances, prostheses and devices in accordance with a dentist's laboratory work authorization.  To avoid misleading the public, no occupational title other than dental laboratory technician or certified dental technician (when appropriate) should be used to describe this auxiliary.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-132700000X">132700000X</a></td><td>Dietary Manager</td><td>A dietary manager is a trained food services professional who is charged with maintaining cost/profit objectives, purchasing foods and services for the department and supervising staff.. Dietary managers are trained to understand the basic nutritional needs of clients and work in partnership with dietitians, who offer specialized nutritional expertise. The CDM certified dietary manager designation is an advanced professional credential awarded to dietary managers who have completed specific course work, have passed the national credentialing exams (including a sanitation and safety exam) and have applied for certification.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133N00000X">133N00000X</a></td><td>Nutritionist</td><td>A specialist in adapting and applying food and nutrient knowledge to the solution of food and nutritional problems, the control of disease, and the promotion of health. Nutritionists perform research, instruct groups and individuals about nutritional requirements, and assist people in developing meal patterns that meet their nutritional needs; (2) A nutritionist is someone who has completed undergraduate and/or graduate training in the discipline of nutrition without necessarily meeting the academic and experience requirements to qualify for the Registered Dietitian designation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133NN1002X">133NN1002X</a></td><td>Nutrition Education Nutritionist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133V00000X">133V00000X</a></td><td>Registered Dietitian</td><td>A Registered Dietitian (RD)/Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) is an individual uniquely trained in the science of nutrition and practice of dietetics to design and provide medical nutrition therapy (MNT) and other evidence-based applications of the Nutrition Care Process (NCP) that exemplify the profession's systematic approach to providing high quality nutrition care. Registered dietitians provide MNT for the purpose of disease prevention or management, or to treat or rehabilitate an illness, injury, or condition, with the use of specific, indicated physical and cognitive nutrition care services comprised of one or more of the following aspects of the NCP: nutrition assessment/reassessment, nutrition diagnosis, nutrition intervention (e.g., nutrition counseling, therapeutic diet ordering, and nutrition education) and nutrition monitoring and evaluation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1004X">133VN1004X</a></td><td>Pediatric Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Pediatric Nutrition and applies evidence-based nutrition knowledge in providing medical nutrition therapy for pediatric patients. Specialists work directly with healthy and/or ill children (newborn up to 21 years of age) as well as children with special health care needs in a variety of settings (hospitals, community-based and/or family-centered programs, education programs, home, etc.), OR indirectly through management, care coordination, education, quality improvement, or research practice linked specifically to pediatric nutrition.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1005X">133VN1005X</a></td><td>Renal Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Renal Nutrition and works directly with adult and/or pediatric patients with acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages 1-5, or receiving renal replacement therapies (dialysis/transplant) in a variety of settings, OR works indirectly in management, education, or research practice linked specifically to renal nutrition. The specialist in renal/nephrology nutrition is responsible for nutrition assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring, and evaluation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1006X">133VN1006X</a></td><td>Metabolic Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1101X">133VN1101X</a></td><td>Gerontological Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Specialist in Gerontological Nutrition and provides nutrition care to promote quality of life and optimal health for older adults across the continuum of care, including: acute care, post-acute care, primary care, long-term care, assisted living, home care, palliative care, community-based nutrition, food service, correctional facilities, and government programs. RDN who works indirectly with gerontological nutrition through roles in management, industry, education, and research.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1201X">133VN1201X</a></td><td>Obesity and Weight Management Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Board Certified Specialist for Obesity and Weight Management and educates, supports, and advocates for patients and clients to understand and manage their weight and associated risks through the use of nutritional, behavioral health, medical, surgical, pharmacotherapeutic, and exercise and physical activity interventions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1301X">133VN1301X</a></td><td>Oncology Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Oncology Nutrition and provides direct nutrition care for individuals at risk for or diagnosed with cancer. RDNs working directly with individuals at risk for, or diagnosed with, any type of malignancy or pre-malignant condition, in a variety of settings (e.g. hospitals, clinics, cancer centers, hospices, public health), OR indirectly through roles in management, education, industry, and research practice linked specifically to oncology nutrition. RDN who works indirectly with oncology nutrition through roles in management, education, industry, and research.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1401X">133VN1401X</a></td><td>Pediatric Critical Care Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Pediatric Critical Care Nutrition and applies evidence-based nutrition knowledge in providing medical nutrition therapy for critically ill infants, children and adolescents. Additional roles could include coordination, education, quality improvement, or research linked specifically to pediatric critical care nutrition.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-133VN1501X">133VN1501X</a></td><td>Sports Dietetics Nutrition Registered Dietitian</td><td>An individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Sports Dietetics and applies evidence-based nutrition knowledge in exercise and sports. RDNs specializing in sports dietetics assess, educate, and counsel athletes and active individuals. They design, implement, and manage safe and effective nutrition strategies that enhance lifelong health, fitness, and optimal performance.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-136A00000X">136A00000X</a></td><td>Registered Dietetic Technician</td><td>A Dietetic Technician, Registered (DTR)/Nutrition and Dietetics Technician, Registered (NDTR) is an individual holding a nationally protected title issued by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) to qualified individuals who obtain an associate's degree or higher and successfully complete a sliding set of academic, examination, and practice requirements accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) or established by CDR, the nature of which are dependent upon the level of academic degree obtained. The scope of practice of the NDTR focuses on food, nutrition, and dietetics practice, as well as related services. NDTRs work under the supervision of a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) when in direct patient/client nutrition care, and may work independently in providing general nutrition education to healthy populations. Patient/client populations include individuals receiving individualized care who have medical conditions or diseases, as well as at-risk individuals receiving personalized nutrition guidance as part of preventive health care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-146D00000X">146D00000X</a></td><td>Personal Emergency Response Attendant</td><td>Individuals that are specially trained to assist patients living at home with urgent/emergent situations.  These individuals must be able to perform CPR and basic first aid and have sufficient counseling skills to allay fears and assist in working through processes necessary to resolve the crisis.  Functions may include transportation to various facilities and businesses, contacting agencies to initiate remediation service or providing reassurance.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-146L00000X">146L00000X</a></td><td>Paramedic</td><td>An EMT, Paramedic is an individual trained and certified to perform advanced life support (ALS) in medical emergencies based on individual state boards.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-146M00000X">146M00000X</a></td><td>Intermediate Emergency Medical Technician</td><td>An Intermediate EMT is an individual trained and certified to perform intermediate life support treatment in medical emergencies based on individual state boards.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-146N00000X">146N00000X</a></td><td>Basic Emergency Medical Technician</td><td>A Basic EMT is an individual trained and certified to perform basic life support treatment in medical emergencies based on individual state boards.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152W00000X">152W00000X</a></td><td>Optometrist</td><td>Doctors of optometry (ODs) are the primary health care professionals for the eye.  Optometrists examine, diagnose, treat, and manage diseases, injuries, and disorders of the visual system, the eye, and associated structures as well as identify related systemic conditions affecting the eye.  An optometrist has completed pre-professional undergraduate education in a college or university and four years of professional education at a college of optometry, leading to the doctor of optometry (O.D.) degree.  Some optometrists complete an optional residency in a specific area of practice.  Optometrists are eye health care professionals state-licensed to diagnose and treat diseases and disorders of the eye and visual system.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152WC0802X">152WC0802X</a></td><td>Corneal and Contact Management Optometrist</td><td>The professional activities performed by an Optometrist related to the fitting of contact lenses to an eye, ongoing evaluation of the cornea's ability to sustain successful contact lens wear, and treatment of any external eye or corneal condition which can affect contact lens wear.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152WL0500X">152WL0500X</a></td><td>Low Vision Rehabilitation Optometrist</td><td>Optometrists who specialize in low-vision care having training to assess visual function, prescribe low-vision devices, develop treatment plans, and recommend other vision rehabilitation services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152WP0200X">152WP0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Optometrist</td><td>Optometrists who work in Pediatrics are concerned with the prevention, development, diagnosis, and treatment of visual problems in children.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152WS0006X">152WS0006X</a></td><td>Sports Vision Optometrist</td><td>An optometrist who offers services designed to care for unique vision care needs of athletes, which may include one of more of the following services:  corrective vision care unique to a specific sporting environment; protective eyewear for the prevention of sports-related injuries; vision enhancement - which may include vision therapy and techniques to improve visual skills specific to the athlete's sport.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152WV0400X">152WV0400X</a></td><td>Vision Therapy Optometrist</td><td>Optometrists who specialize in vision therapy as a treatment process used to improve vision function. It includes a broad range of developmental and rehabilitative treatment programs individually prescribed to remediate specific sensory, motor and/or visual perceptual dysfunctions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-152WX0102X">152WX0102X</a></td><td>Occupational Vision Optometrist</td><td>Optometrists who work in Occupational Vision, the branch of environmental optometry, consider all aspects of the relationship between work and vision, visual performances, eye safety, and health.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156F00000X">156F00000X</a></td><td>Technician/Technologist</td><td>A broad category grouping different kinds of technologists and technicians. See individual definitions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FC0800X">156FC0800X</a></td><td>Contact Lens Technician/Technologist</td><td>An optician or other ancillary support staff person who, where authorized by state law and trained or certified to do so, may fit or dispense contact lenses to a patient based on the prescription of an optometrist or medical physician.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FC0801X">156FC0801X</a></td><td>Contact Lens Fitter</td><td>An optician or other ancillary support staff person who, where authorized by state law and trained or certified to do so, may fit or dispense contact lenses to a patient based on the prescription of an optometrist or medical physician.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1100X">156FX1100X</a></td><td>Ophthalmic Technician/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1101X">156FX1101X</a></td><td>Ophthalmic Assistant</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1201X">156FX1201X</a></td><td>Optometric Assistant Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1202X">156FX1202X</a></td><td>Optometric Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1700X">156FX1700X</a></td><td>Ocularist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1800X">156FX1800X</a></td><td>Optician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-156FX1900X">156FX1900X</a></td><td>Orthoptist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163W00000X">163W00000X</a></td><td>Registered Nurse</td><td>(1) A registered nurse is a person qualified by graduation from an accredited nursing school (depending upon schooling, a registered nurse may receive either a diploma from a hospital program, an associate degree in nursing (A.D.N.) or a Bachelor of Science degree in nursing (B.S.N.), who is licensed or certified by the state, and is practicing within the scope of that license or certification. R.N.'s assist patient in recovering and maintaining their physical or mental health. They assist physicians during treatments and examinations and administer medications. (2) A provider who is trained and educated in a formal nursing education program at an accredited school of nursing, passes a national certification examination, and is licensed by the state to practice nursing. The individual provides nursing services to patients or clients in areas such as health promotion, disease prevention, acute and chronic care and restoration and maintenance of health across the life span.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WA0400X">163WA0400X</a></td><td>Addiction (Substance Use Disorder) Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WA2000X">163WA2000X</a></td><td>Administrator Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC0200X">163WC0200X</a></td><td>Critical Care Medicine Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC0400X">163WC0400X</a></td><td>Case Management Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC1400X">163WC1400X</a></td><td>College Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC1500X">163WC1500X</a></td><td>Community Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC1600X">163WC1600X</a></td><td>Continuing Education/Staff Development Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC2100X">163WC2100X</a></td><td>Continence Care Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WC3500X">163WC3500X</a></td><td>Cardiac Rehabilitation Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WD0400X">163WD0400X</a></td><td>Diabetes Educator Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WD1100X">163WD1100X</a></td><td>Peritoneal Dialysis Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WE0003X">163WE0003X</a></td><td>Emergency Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WE0900X">163WE0900X</a></td><td>Enterostomal Therapy Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WF0300X">163WF0300X</a></td><td>Flight Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WG0000X">163WG0000X</a></td><td>General Practice Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WG0100X">163WG0100X</a></td><td>Gastroenterology Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WG0600X">163WG0600X</a></td><td>Gerontology Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WH0200X">163WH0200X</a></td><td>Home Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WH0500X">163WH0500X</a></td><td>Hemodialysis Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WH1000X">163WH1000X</a></td><td>Hospice Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WI0500X">163WI0500X</a></td><td>Infusion Therapy Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WI0600X">163WI0600X</a></td><td>Infection Control Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WL0100X">163WL0100X</a></td><td>Lactation Consultant (Registered Nurse)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WM0102X">163WM0102X</a></td><td>Maternal Newborn Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WM0705X">163WM0705X</a></td><td>Medical-Surgical Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WM1400X">163WM1400X</a></td><td>Nurse Massage Therapist (NMT)</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WN0002X">163WN0002X</a></td><td>Neonatal Intensive Care Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WN0003X">163WN0003X</a></td><td>Low-Risk Neonatal Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WN0300X">163WN0300X</a></td><td>Nephrology Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WN0800X">163WN0800X</a></td><td>Neuroscience Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WN1003X">163WN1003X</a></td><td>Nutrition Support Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP0000X">163WP0000X</a></td><td>Pain Management Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP0200X">163WP0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP0218X">163WP0218X</a></td><td>Pediatric Oncology Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP0807X">163WP0807X</a></td><td>Child &amp; Adolescent Psychiatric/Mental Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP0808X">163WP0808X</a></td><td>Psychiatric/Mental Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP0809X">163WP0809X</a></td><td>Adult Psychiatric/Mental Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP1700X">163WP1700X</a></td><td>Perinatal Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WP2201X">163WP2201X</a></td><td>Ambulatory Care Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WR0006X">163WR0006X</a></td><td>Registered Nurse First Assistant</td><td>A perioperative registered nurse who works in collaboration with the surgeon and other health care team members to achieve optimal outcomes.  The RNFA has acquired the necessary knowledge, judgment, and skills specific to the expanded role of RNFA clinical practice.  Intraoperatively, the RNFA assists the surgeon.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WR0400X">163WR0400X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WR1000X">163WR1000X</a></td><td>Reproductive Endocrinology/Infertility Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WS0121X">163WS0121X</a></td><td>Plastic Surgery Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WS0200X">163WS0200X</a></td><td>School Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WU0100X">163WU0100X</a></td><td>Urology Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WW0000X">163WW0000X</a></td><td>Wound Care Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WW0101X">163WW0101X</a></td><td>Ambulatory Women's Health Care Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX0002X">163WX0002X</a></td><td>High-Risk Obstetric Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX0003X">163WX0003X</a></td><td>Inpatient Obstetric Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX0106X">163WX0106X</a></td><td>Occupational Health Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX0200X">163WX0200X</a></td><td>Oncology Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX0601X">163WX0601X</a></td><td>Otorhinolaryngology &amp; Head-Neck Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX0800X">163WX0800X</a></td><td>Orthopedic Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX1100X">163WX1100X</a></td><td>Ophthalmic Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-163WX1500X">163WX1500X</a></td><td>Ostomy Care Registered Nurse</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-164W00000X">164W00000X</a></td><td>Licensed Practical Nurse</td><td>An individual with post-high school vocational training and practical experience in the provision of nursing care at a level less than that required for certification as a Registered Nurse. Requirements for education, experience, licensure, and job responsibilities vary among the states.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-164X00000X">164X00000X</a></td><td>Licensed Vocational Nurse</td><td>An individual with post-high school vocational training and practical experience in the provision of nursing care at a level less than that required for certification as a Registered Nurse. [An alternate term for licensed practical nurse arising from difference in occupational titles between states and post-high school training programs and institutions.] Requirements for education, experience, licensure, and job responsibilities vary among the states.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-167G00000X">167G00000X</a></td><td>Licensed Psychiatric Technician</td><td>An individual licensed by the state board as a Psychiatric Technician based upon completion of a prescribed course of theory and clinical practice, with two thirds of the clinical practice time focused on mental and developmental disorders.  The psychiatric technician practices under the direct supervision of a physician, psychologist, registered nurse or other professional to provide care to patients with mental disorders and developmental disabilities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-170100000X">170100000X</a></td><td>Ph.D. Medical Genetics</td><td>A medical geneticist works in association with a medical specialist, is affiliated with a clinical genetics program, and serves as a consultant to medical and dental specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-170300000X">170300000X</a></td><td>Genetic Counselor (M.S.)</td><td>A masters trained health care provider who collects and interprets genetic family histories; assesses the risk of disease occurrence or recurrence; identifies interventions to manage or ameliorate disease risk; educates about inheritance, testing, management, prevention, ethical issues, resources, and research; and counsels to promote informed choices and adaptation. Certification was established in 1993 by the American Board of Genetic Counseling and prior to that by the American Board of Medical Genetics. Requirements for experience, licensure, and job responsibilities vary among the states.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171000000X">171000000X</a></td><td>Military Health Care Provider</td><td>Active duty military health care providers not otherwise classified who need to be separately identified for operational, clinical, or administrative processes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1710I1002X">1710I1002X</a></td><td>Independent Duty Corpsman</td><td>A Navy Independent Duty Corpsman (IDC) is an active duty Sailor who has successfully completed one of the Navy's specific IDC training programs.  IDCs are formally trained and educated to perform primary medical care and minor surgical services in a variety of health care and non-health care settings worldwide under indirect physician supervision.  IDCs provide care to Department of Defense operational forces and other supporting forces such as contractors and foreign nationals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1710I1003X">1710I1003X</a></td><td>Independent Duty Medical Technicians</td><td>An Independent Duty Medical Technician (IDMT) is specially trained and educated to perform primary medical care, minor surgical services, and treatment of dental disorders for active duty military members in a variety of health care and non-health care settings worldwide under direct and indirect physician supervision.  An IDMT may take medical histories, perform physical exams, order lab tests and x-rays, prescribe medications, and give immunizations. IDMTs work under the direct supervision of a physician preceptor when at home station and indirectly when assigned to a Mobile Aid Station, Mobile Medical Unit, remote site, or otherwise deployed specifically as an IDMT.  An IDMT may be an experienced Aerospace Medical Service Technician who meets special task qualifications and is recommended for training by the Aerospace Medical Service Functional Manager at their Medical Treatment Facility.  IDMTs maintain certification as Nationally Registered Emergency Medical Technicians and as Immunization Back-up Technicians.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171100000X">171100000X</a></td><td>Acupuncturist</td><td>An acupuncturist is a person who performs ancient therapy for alleviation of pain, anesthesia and treatment of some diseases. Acupuncturists use long, fine needles inserted into specific points in order to treat painful conditions or produce anesthesia.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171400000X">171400000X</a></td><td>Health &amp; Wellness Coach</td><td>The Health &amp; Wellness Coach is trained in motivational theories, strategies, and communication techniques, which are used to assist patients to develop intrinsic motivation and obtain skills to create sustainable change for improved health and well-being. Health and wellness coaching is a patient-centered approach wherein patients at least partially determine their goals, use self-discovery or active learning processes together with content education to work toward their goals, and self-monitor behaviors to increase accountability, all within the context of an interpersonal relationship with a coach.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171M00000X">171M00000X</a></td><td>Case Manager/Care Coordinator</td><td>A person who provides case management services and assists an individual in gaining access to needed medical, social, educational, and/or other services.  The person has the ability to provide an assessment and review of completed plan of care on a periodic basis.  This person is also able to take collaborative action to coordinate the services with other providers and monitor the enrollee's progress toward the cost-effective achievement of objectives specified in the plan of care.  Credentials may vary from an experience in the fields of psychology, social work, rehabilitation, nursing or a closely related human service field, to a related Assoc of Arts Degree or to nursing credentials.  Some states may require certification in case management.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171R00000X">171R00000X</a></td><td>Interpreter</td><td>An Interpreter is a person who translates oral communication between two or more people.  This includes translating from one language to another or interpreting sign language.  An interpreter is necessary for medical care when the patient does not speak the language of the health care provider or when the patient has a disability involving spoken language.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171W00000X">171W00000X</a></td><td>Contractor</td><td>A person who contracts to supply certain materials or do certain work for a stipulated sum; esp., one whose business is contracting work in any of the building trades. For purposes of the taxonomy, a person who contracts to complete home repairs or modifications to accommodate a health condition (e.g. wheelchair ramp, kitchen counter lowering).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171WH0202X">171WH0202X</a></td><td>Home Modifications Contractor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-171WV0202X">171WV0202X</a></td><td>Vehicle Modifications Contractor</td><td>A contractor who makes modifications to private vehicles to accommodate a health condition.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-172A00000X">172A00000X</a></td><td>Driver</td><td>A person employed to operate a motor vehicle as a carrier of persons or property.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-172M00000X">172M00000X</a></td><td>Mechanotherapist</td><td>A practitioner of mechanotherapy examines patients by verbal inquiry, examination of the musculoskeletal system by hand, and visual inspection and observation.  In the treatment of patients, mechanotherapists employ the techniques of advised or supervised exercise; electrical neuromuscular stimulation; massage or manipulation; or air, water, heat, cold, sound, or infrared ray therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-172P00000X">172P00000X</a></td><td>Naprapath</td><td>Naprapathy means a branch of medicine that focuses on the evaluation and treatment of neuron-muscular conditions.  Doctors of naprapathy are connective tissue specialists.  Education and training are defined through individual states' licensing/certification requirements.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-172V00000X">172V00000X</a></td><td>Community Health Worker</td><td>Community health workers (CHW) are lay members of communities who work either for pay or as volunteers in association with the local health care system in both urban and rural environments and usually share ethnicity, language, socioeconomic status and life experiences with the community members they serve. They have been identified by many titles such as community health advisors, lay health advocates, "promotores(as), outreach educators, community health representatives, peer health promoters, and peer health educators. CHWs offer interpretation and translation services, provide culturally appropriate health education and information, assist people in receiving the care they need, give informal counseling and guidance on health behaviors, advocate for individual and community health needs, and provide some direct services such as first aid and blood pressure screening.  Some examples of these practitioners are Community Health Aides or Practitioners established under 25 USC 1616 (l) under HHS, Indian Health Service, Public Health Service.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-173000000X">173000000X</a></td><td>Legal Medicine</td><td>The specialty areas of medicine concerned with matters of, and relations with, substantive law and legal institutions; such as the conduct of medical examinations at crime scenes, performance of autopsies, giving of expert medical testimony in judicial proceedings, medical treatment of inmates of penal institutions, the practice of trauma medicine in law enforcement settings, and other clinical practice and medical science applications in the fields of law, law enforcement, and corrections.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-173C00000X">173C00000X</a></td><td>Reflexologist</td><td>Reflexologists perform a non-invasive complementary modality involving thumb and finger techniques to apply alternating pressure to the reflexes within the reflex maps of the body located on the feet, hands, and outer ears. Reflexologists apply pressure to specific areas (feet, hands, and ears) to promote a response from an area far removed from the tissue stimulated via the nervous system and acupuncture meridians. Reflexologists are recommended to complete a minimum of 200 hours of education, typically including anatomy &amp; physiology, Reflexology theory, body systems, zones, meridians &amp; relaxation response, ethics, business standards, and supervised practicum.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-173F00000X">173F00000X</a></td><td>Sleep Specialist (PhD)</td><td>Sleep medicine is a clinical specialty with a focus on clinical problems that require accurate diagnosis and treatment. The knowledge base of sleep medicine is derived from many disciplines including neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, respiratory physiology, pharmacology, psychology, psychiatry, neurology, general internal medicine, pulmonary medicine, and pediatrics as well as others.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174400000X">174400000X</a></td><td>Specialist</td><td>An individual educated and trained in an applied knowledge discipline used in the performance of work at a level requiring knowledge and skills beyond or apart from that provided by a general education or liberal arts degree.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1744G0900X">1744G0900X</a></td><td>Graphics Designer</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1744P3200X">1744P3200X</a></td><td>Prosthetics Case Management</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1744R1102X">1744R1102X</a></td><td>Research Study Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1744R1103X">1744R1103X</a></td><td>Research Study Abstracter/Coder</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174H00000X">174H00000X</a></td><td>Health Educator</td><td>Health educators work in a variety of settings providing education to individuals or groups of individuals on healthy behaviors, wellness, and health-related topics with the goal of preventing diseases and health problems.  Health educators generally require a bachelor's degree and may receive additional training, such as through mentoring, internships, or volunteer work.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174M00000X">174M00000X</a></td><td>Veterinarian</td><td>A doctor of veterinary medicine, trained and authorized to practice veterinarian medicine and surgery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174MM1900X">174MM1900X</a></td><td>Medical Research Veterinarian</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174N00000X">174N00000X</a></td><td>Lactation Consultant (Non-RN)</td><td>An individual trained to provide breastfeeding assistance services to both mothers and infants. Lactation Consultants are not required to be nurses and are trained through specific courses of education. The Lactation Consultant may have additional certification through a national or international organization.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-174V00000X">174V00000X</a></td><td>Clinical Ethicist</td><td>A clinical ethicist has been trained in bioethics and ethics case consultation.  The clinical ethicist addresses medical-ethical dilemmas arising in clinical practice, such as end-of-life care, refusal of treatment, and futility of care; assists patients and health care providers with medical decision-making; and provides ethics education for patients and families.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-175F00000X">175F00000X</a></td><td>Naturopath</td><td>Diagnoses, treats, and cares for patients, using system of practice that bases treatment of physiological functions and abnormal conditions on natural laws governing human body: Utilizes physiological, psychological, and mechanical methods, such as air, water, light, heat, earth, phototherapy, food and herb therapy, psychotherapy, electrotherapy, physiotherapy, minor and orificial surgery, mechanotherapy, naturopathic corrections and manipulation, and natural methods or modalities, together with natural medicines, natural processed foods, and herbs and nature's remedies. Excludes major surgery, therapeutic use of x ray and radium, and use of drugs, except those assimilable substances containing elements or compounds which are components of body tissues and are physiologically compatible to body processes for maintenance of life.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-175L00000X">175L00000X</a></td><td>Homeopath</td><td>A provider who is educated and trained in a system of therapeutics in which diseases are treated by drugs which are capable of producing in healthy persons symptoms like those of the disease to be treated. Treatment requires administering a drug in minute doses.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-175M00000X">175M00000X</a></td><td>Lay Midwife</td><td>A person qualified by experience and limited specialized training to provide obstetric and neo-natal care in the management of women having normal pregnancy, labor and childbirth. The lay midwife is licensed in some states.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-175T00000X">175T00000X</a></td><td>Peer Specialist</td><td>Individuals certified to perform peer support services through a training process defined by a government agency, such as the Department of Veterans Affairs or a state mental health department/certification/licensing authority.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-176B00000X">176B00000X</a></td><td>Midwife</td><td>A Midwife is a trained professional with special expertise in supporting women to maintain a healthy pregnancy birth, offering expert individualized care, education, counseling, and support to a woman and her newborn throughout the childbearing cycle. A Midwife is a skilled and independent practitioner who has undergone formalized training. Midwives are not required to be nurses and may be trained via multiple routes of education (apprenticeship, workshop, formal classes, or programs, etc., usually a combination). The educational background requirements and licensing requirements vary by state. The Midwife may or may not be certified by a state or national organization.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-176P00000X">176P00000X</a></td><td>Funeral Director</td><td>A person, usually an embalmer, whose business is to arrange for the burial or cremation of the dead and to assist at the funeral rites.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-183500000X">183500000X</a></td><td>Pharmacist</td><td>An individual licensed by the appropriate state regulatory agency to engage in the practice of pharmacy.  The practice of pharmacy includes, but is not limited to, assessment, interpretation, evaluation, and implementation, initiation, monitoring or modification of medication and or medical orders; the compounding or dispensing of medication and or medical orders; participation in drug and device procurement, storage, and selection; drug administration; drug regimen reviews; drug or drug-related research; provision of patient education and the provision of those acts or services necessary to provide medication therapy management services in all areas of patient care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835C0205X">1835C0205X</a></td><td>Critical Care Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in the delivery of patient care services by pharmacists, as integral members of interprofessional teams, working to ensure the safe and effective use of medications in critically ill patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835G0303X">1835G0303X</a></td><td>Geriatric Pharmacist</td><td>A pharmacist who is certified in geriatric pharmacy practice is designated as a "Certified Geriatric Pharmacist" (CGP).  To become certified, candidates are expected to be knowledgeable about principles of geriatric pharmacotherapy and the provision of pharmaceutical care to the elderly.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835N0905X">1835N0905X</a></td><td>Nuclear Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in procurement, compounding, quality control testing, dispensing, distribution, and monitoring of radiopharmaceuticals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835N1003X">1835N1003X</a></td><td>Nutrition Support Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in maintenance and/or restoration of optimal nutritional status, designing and modifying treatment according to patient needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835P0018X">1835P0018X</a></td><td>Pharmacist Clinician (PhC)/ Clinical Pharmacy Specialist</td><td>Pharmacist Clinician/Clinical Pharmacy Specialist is a pharmacist with additional training and an expanded scope of practice that may include prescriptive authority, therapeutic management, and disease management.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835P0200X">1835P0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in the delivery of patient care services by pharmacists that ensures the safe and effective use of medications for all children from neonates through adolescents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835P1200X">1835P1200X</a></td><td>Pharmacotherapy Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in optimizing pharmacotherapeutic care of patients, by developing, implementing, monitoring, and modifying complex treatment plans, providing advanced level education and consultation, and collaborating with other health professionals in the management of therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835P1300X">1835P1300X</a></td><td>Psychiatric Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in optimizing care of patients with psychiatric illness by assessing and monitoring patients, recognizing drug-induced problems, and recommending appropriate treatment plans.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835P2201X">1835P2201X</a></td><td>Ambulatory Care Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in the provision of integrated, accessible health care services by pharmacists and is accountable for addressing medication needs, developing sustained partnerships with patients, and practicing in the context of family and community.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-1835X0200X">1835X0200X</a></td><td>Oncology Pharmacist</td><td>A licensed pharmacist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in developing, recommending, implementing, monitoring, and modifying pharmacotherapeutic plans to optimize outcomes in patients with malignant diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-183700000X">183700000X</a></td><td>Pharmacy Technician</td><td>A person who works under the direct supervision of a licensed pharmacist and performs many pharmacy-related functions that do not require the professional judgment of a pharmacist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-193200000X">193200000X</a></td><td>Multi-Specialty Group</td><td>A business group of one or more individual practitioners, who practice with different areas of specialization.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-202C00000X">202C00000X</a></td><td>Independent Medical Examiner Physician</td><td>A special evaluator not involved with the medical care of the individual examinee that impartially evaluates the care being provided by other practitioners to clarify clinical, disability, liability or other case issues.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-202K00000X">202K00000X</a></td><td>Phlebology Physician</td><td>Phlebology is the medical discipline that involves the diagnosis and treatment of venous disorders, including spider veins, varicose veins, chronic venous insufficiency, venous leg ulcers, congenital venous abnormalities, venous thromboembolism and other disorders of venous origin.   A phlebologist has attained a minimum of 50 hours of CME units in phlebology-related courses, and is knowledgeable of and trained in a variety of diagnostic techniques including physical examination, venous imaging techniques such as duplex ultrasound, CT and MR, plethysmographic techniques and laboratory evaluation related to venous thromboembolism.  The phlebologist is also trained in a variety of therapeutic interventions, which may include compression, sclerotherapy, cutaneous vascular laser, endovenous thermoablation procedures (laser and radiofrequency) endovenous chemical ablation, surgical procedures (e.g., ambulatory phlebectomy, venous ligation), vasoactive medications and the management of venous thromboembolism.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-204C00000X">204C00000X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine) Physician</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-204D00000X">204D00000X</a></td><td>Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine &amp; OMM Physician</td><td>The Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine and Osteopathic Manipulative Medicine physician directs special attention to the neuromusculoskeletal system and its interaction with other body systems. Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine and Osteopathic Manipulative Medicine encompasses increased knowledge and understanding of osteopathic principles and practice and heightened technical skills of osteopathic manipulative medicine, and integrates each of these into the management of pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-204E00000X">204E00000X</a></td><td>Oral &amp; Maxillofacial Surgery (D.M.D.) Physician</td><td>Oral and maxillofacial surgeons are trained to recognize and treat a wide spectrum of diseases, injuries and defects in the head, neck, face, jaws and the hard and soft tissues of the oral and maxillofacial region. They are also trained to administer anesthesia, and provide care in an office setting. They are trained to treat problems such as the extraction of wisdom teeth, misaligned jaws, tumors and cysts of the jaw and mouth, and to perform dental implant surgery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-204F00000X">204F00000X</a></td><td>Transplant Surgery Physician</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-204R00000X">204R00000X</a></td><td>Electrodiagnostic Medicine Physician</td><td>Electrodiagnostic medicine is the medical subspecialty that applies neurophysiologic techniques to diagnose, evaluate, and treat patients with impairments of the neurologic, neuromuscular, and/or muscular systems.  Qualified physicians are trained in performing electrophysiological testing and interpretation of the test data.  They require knowledge in anatomy, physiology, kinesiology, histology, and pathology of the brain, spinal cord, autonomic nerves, cranial nerves, peripheral nerves, neuromuscular junction, and muscles. They must know clinical features and treatment of diseases of the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems, as well as those of neuromuscular junction and muscle. Physicians also require special knowledge about electric signal processing, including waveform analysis, electronics and instrumentation, stimulation and recording equipment, and statistics.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207K00000X">207K00000X</a></td><td>Allergy &amp; Immunology Physician</td><td>An allergist-immunologist is trained in evaluation, physical and laboratory diagnosis, and management of disorders involving the immune system. Selected examples of such conditions include asthma, anaphylaxis, rhinitis, eczema, and adverse reactions to drugs, foods, and insect stings as well as immune deficiency diseases (both acquired and congenital), defects in host defense, and problems related to autoimmune disease, organ transplantation, or malignancies of the immune system.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207KA0200X">207KA0200X</a></td><td>Allergy Physician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207KI0005X">207KI0005X</a></td><td>Clinical &amp; Laboratory Immunology (Allergy &amp; Immunology) Physician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207L00000X">207L00000X</a></td><td>Anesthesiology Physician</td><td>An anesthesiologist is trained to provide pain relief and maintenance, or restoration, of a stable condition during and immediately following an operation or an obstetric or diagnostic procedure. The anesthesiologist assesses the risk of the patient undergoing surgery and optimizes the patient's condition prior to, during and after surgery. In addition to these management responsibilities, the anesthesiologist provides medical management and consultation in pain management and critical care medicine. Anesthesiologists diagnose and treat acute, long-standing and cancer pain problems; diagnose and treat patients with critical illnesses or severe injuries; direct resuscitation in the care of patients with cardiac or respiratory emergencies, including the need for artificial ventilation; and supervise post-anesthesia recovery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207LA0401X">207LA0401X</a></td><td>Addiction Medicine (Anesthesiology) Physician</td><td>An anesthesiologist who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of addictions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207LC0200X">207LC0200X</a></td><td>Critical Care Medicine (Anesthesiology) Physician</td><td>An anesthesiologist, who specializes in critical care medicine diagnoses, treats and supports patients with multiple organ dysfunction. This specialist may have administrative responsibilities for intensive care units and may also facilitate and coordinate patient care among the primary physician, the critical care staff and other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207LH0002X">207LH0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Anesthesiology) Physician</td><td>An anesthesiologist with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207LP2900X">207LP2900X</a></td><td>Pain Medicine (Anesthesiology) Physician</td><td>An anesthesiologist who provides a high level of care, either as a primary physician or consultant, for patients experiencing problems with acute, chronic and/or cancer pain in both hospital and ambulatory settings. Patient care needs are also coordinated with other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207LP3000X">207LP3000X</a></td><td>Pediatric Anesthesiology Physician</td><td>An anesthesiologist who has had additional skill and experience in and is primarily concerned with the anesthesia, sedation, and pain management needs of infants and children.  A pediatric anesthesiologist generally provides services including the evaluation of complex medical problems in infants and children when surgery is necessary,  planning and care for children before and after surgery, pain control, anesthesia and sedation for any procedures out of the operating room such as MRI, CT scan, and radiation therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207N00000X">207N00000X</a></td><td>Dermatology Physician</td><td>A dermatologist is trained to diagnose and treat pediatric and adult patients with benign and malignant disorders of the skin, mouth, external genitalia, hair and nails, as well as a number of sexually transmitted diseases. The dermatologist has had additional training and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of skin cancers, melanomas, moles and other tumors of the skin, the management of contact dermatitis and other allergic and nonallergic skin disorders, and in the recognition of the skin manifestations of systemic (including internal malignancy) and infectious diseases. Dermatologists have special training in dermatopathology and in the surgical techniques used in dermatology. They also have expertise in the management of cosmetic disorders of the skin such as hair loss and scars and the skin changes associated with aging.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ND0101X">207ND0101X</a></td><td>MOHS-Micrographic Surgery Physician</td><td>The highly-trained surgeons that perform Mohs Micrographic Surgery are specialists both in dermatology and pathology. With their extensive knowledge of the skin and unique pathological skills, they are able to remove only diseased tissue, preserving healthy tissue and minimizing the cosmetic impact of the surgery.  Mohs surgeons who belong to the American College of Mohs Surgery (ACMS) have completed a minimum of one year of fellowship training at one of the ACMS-approved training centers in the U.S.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ND0900X">207ND0900X</a></td><td>Dermatopathology Physician</td><td>A dermatopathologist has the expertise to diagnose and monitor diseases of the skin including infectious, immunologic, degenerative and neoplastic diseases. This entails the examination and interpretation of specially prepared tissue sections, cellular scrapings and smears of skin lesions by means of routine and special (electron and fluorescent) microscopes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207NI0002X">207NI0002X</a></td><td>Clinical &amp; Laboratory Dermatological Immunology Physician</td><td>A dermatologist who utilizes various specialized laboratory procedures to diagnose disorders characterized by defective responses of the body's immune system. Immunodermatologists also may provide consultation in the management of these disorders and administer specialized forms of therapy for these diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207NP0225X">207NP0225X</a></td><td>Pediatric Dermatology Physician</td><td>A pediatric dermatologist has, through additional special training, developed expertise in the treatment of specific skin disease categories with emphasis on those diseases which predominate in infants, children and adolescents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207NS0135X">207NS0135X</a></td><td>Procedural Dermatology Physician</td><td>Procedural Dermatology, a subspecialty of Dermatology, encompassing a wide variety of surgical procedures and methods to remove or modify skin tissue for health or cosmetic benefit. These methods include scalpel surgery, laser surgery, chemical surgery, cryosurgery (liquid nitrogen), electrosurgery, aspiration surgery, liposuction, injection of filler substances, and Mohs micrographic controlled surgery (a special technique for the removal of growths, especially skin cancers).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207P00000X">207P00000X</a></td><td>Emergency Medicine Physician</td><td>An emergency physician focuses on the immediate decision making and action necessary to prevent death or any further disability both in the pre-hospital setting by directing emergency medical technicians and in the emergency department. The emergency physician provides immediate recognition, evaluation, care, stabilization and disposition of a generally diversified population of adult and pediatric patients in response to acute illness and injury.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207PE0004X">207PE0004X</a></td><td>Emergency Medical Services (Emergency Medicine) Physician</td><td>An emergency medicine physician who specializes in non-hospital based emergency medical services (e.g., disaster site, accident scene, transport vehicle, etc.) to provide pre-hospital assessment, treatment, and transport patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207PE0005X">207PE0005X</a></td><td>Undersea and Hyperbaric Medicine (Emergency Medicine) Physician</td><td>A specialist who treats decompression illness and diving accident cases and uses hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat such conditions as carbon monoxide poisoning, gas gangrene, non-healing wounds, tissue damage from radiation and burns, and bone infections.  This specialist also serves as a consultant to other physicians in all aspects of hyperbaric chamber operations, and assesses risks and applies appropriate standards to prevent disease and disability in divers and other persons working in altered atmospheric conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207PH0002X">207PH0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Emergency Medicine) Physician</td><td>An emergency medicine physician with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207PP0204X">207PP0204X</a></td><td>Pediatric Emergency Medicine (Emergency Medicine) Physician</td><td>Pediatric Emergency Medicine is a clinical subspecialty that focuses on the care of the acutely ill or injured child in the setting of an emergency department.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207PS0010X">207PS0010X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Emergency Medicine) Physician</td><td>An emergency physician with special knowledge in sports medicine is responsible for continuous care in the field of sports medicine, not only for the enhancement of health and fitness, but also for the prevention and management of injury and illness. A sports medicine physician has knowledge and experience in the promotion of wellness and the role of exercise in promoting a healthy lifestyle. Knowledge of exercise physiology, biomechanics, nutrition, psychology, physical rehabilitation and epidemiology is essential to the practice of sports medicine.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207PT0002X">207PT0002X</a></td><td>Medical Toxicology (Emergency Medicine) Physician</td><td>Medical toxicologists are physicians who specialize in the prevention, evaluation, treatment and monitoring of injury and illness from exposures to drugs and chemicals, as well as biological and radiological agents. Medical toxicologists care for people in clinical, academic, governmental and public health settings, and provide poison control center leadership. Important areas of medical toxicology include acute drug poisoning, adverse drug events, drug abuse, addiction and withdrawal, chemicals and hazardous materials, terrorism preparedness, venomous bites and stings and environmental and workplace exposures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207Q00000X">207Q00000X</a></td><td>Family Medicine Physician</td><td>Family Medicine is the medical specialty which is concerned with the total health care of the individual and the family. It is the specialty in breadth which integrates the biological, clinical, and behavioral sciences. The scope of family medicine is not limited by age, sex, organ system, or disease entity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QA0000X">207QA0000X</a></td><td>Adolescent Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A family medicine physician with multidisciplinary training in the unique physical, psychological and social characteristics of adolescents and their health care problems and needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QA0401X">207QA0401X</a></td><td>Addiction Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A family medicine physician who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of addictions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QA0505X">207QA0505X</a></td><td>Adult Medicine Physician</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QB0002X">207QB0002X</a></td><td>Obesity Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the treatment of obesity demonstrates competency in and a thorough understanding of the treatment of obesity and the genetic, biologic, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that contribute to obesity. The obesity medicine physician employs therapeutic interventions including diet, physical activity, behavioral change, and pharmacotherapy. The obesity medicine physician utilizes a comprehensive approach, and may include additional resources such as dietitians, exercise physiologists, mental health professionals and bariatric surgeons as indicated to achieve optimal results. Additionally, the obesity medicine physician maintains competency in providing pre- peri- and post-surgical care of bariatric surgery patients, promotes the prevention of obesity, and advocates for those who suffer from obesity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QG0300X">207QG0300X</a></td><td>Geriatric Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A family medicine physician with special knowledge of the aging process and special skills in the diagnostic, therapeutic, preventive and rehabilitative aspects of illness in the elderly. This specialist cares for geriatric patients in the patient's home, the office, long-term care settings such as nursing homes, and the hospital.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QH0002X">207QH0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A family medicine physician with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QS0010X">207QS0010X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A family medicine physician that is trained to be responsible for continuous care in the field of sports medicine, not only for the enhancement of health and fitness, but also for the prevention of injury and illness. A sports medicine physician must have knowledge and experience in the promotion of wellness and the prevention of injury. Knowledge about special areas of medicine such as exercise physiology, biomechanics, nutrition, psychology, physical rehabilitation, epidemiology, physical evaluation, injuries (treatment and prevention and referral practice) and the role of exercise in promoting a healthy lifestyle are essential to the practice of sports medicine. The sports medicine physician requires special education to provide the knowledge to improve the health care of the individual engaged in physical exercise (sports) whether as an individual or in team participation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207QS1201X">207QS1201X</a></td><td>Sleep Medicine (Family Medicine) Physician</td><td>A Family Medicine Physician who practices Sleep Medicine is certified in the subspecialty of sleep medicine and specializes in the clinical assessment, physiologic testing, diagnosis, management and prevention of sleep and circadian rhythm disorders. Sleep specialists treat patients of any age and use multidisciplinary approaches. Disorders managed by sleep specialists include, but are not limited to, sleep related breathing disorders, insomnia, hypersomnias, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, parasomnias and sleep related movement disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207R00000X">207R00000X</a></td><td>Internal Medicine Physician</td><td>A physician who provides long-term, comprehensive care in the office and the hospital, managing both common and complex illness of adolescents, adults and the elderly. Internists are trained in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, infections and diseases affecting the heart, blood, kidneys, joints and digestive, respiratory and vascular systems. They are also trained in the essentials of primary care internal medicine, which incorporates an understanding of disease prevention, wellness, substance abuse, mental health and effective treatment of common problems of the eyes, ears, skin, nervous system and reproductive organs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RA0000X">207RA0000X</a></td><td>Adolescent Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist who specializes in adolescent medicine is a multi-disciplinary healthcare specialist trained in the unique physical, psychological and social characteristics of adolescents, their healthcare problems and needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RA0001X">207RA0001X</a></td><td>Advanced Heart Failure and Transplant Cardiology Physician</td><td>Specialists in Advanced Heart Failure and Transplant Cardiology would participate in the inpatient and outpatient management of patients with advanced heart failure across the spectrum from consideration for high-risk cardiac surgery, cardiac transplantation, or mechanical circulatory support, to pre-and post-operative evaluation and management of patients with cardiac transplants and mechanical support devices, and end-of-life care for patients with end-stage heart failure.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RA0002X">207RA0002X</a></td><td>Adult Congenital Heart Disease Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the care and treatment of adults with congenital heart disease. Adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) physicians are trained to understand the complexities of congenital heart disease, anatomy, physiology, surgical repairs, and long-term complications and use that to manage ACHD with acquired heart disease, including heart failure, arrhythmias, and pulmonary hypertension.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RA0201X">207RA0201X</a></td><td>Allergy &amp; Immunology (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist doctor of osteopathy that specializes in the treatment of allergy and immunologic disorders.  A doctor of osteopathy that is board eligible/certified by the American Osteopathic Board of Internal Medicine can obtain a Certificate of Special Qualifications in the field of Allergy &amp; Immunology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RA0401X">207RA0401X</a></td><td>Addiction Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist doctor of osteopathy that specializes in the treatment of addiction disorders.  A doctor of osteopathy that is board eligible/certified by the American Osteopathic Board of Internal Medicine can obtain a Certificate of Added Qualifications in the field of Addiction Medicine.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RB0002X">207RB0002X</a></td><td>Obesity Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the treatment of obesity demonstrates competency in and a thorough understanding of the treatment of obesity and the genetic, biologic, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that contribute to obesity. The obesity medicine physician employs therapeutic interventions including diet, physical activity, behavioral change, and pharmacotherapy. The obesity medicine physician utilizes a comprehensive approach, and may include additional resources such as dietitians, exercise physiologists, mental health professionals and bariatric surgeons as indicated to achieve optimal results. Additionally, the obesity medicine physician maintains competency in providing pre- peri- and post-surgical care of bariatric surgery patients, promotes the prevention of obesity, and advocates for those who suffer from obesity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RC0000X">207RC0000X</a></td><td>Cardiovascular Disease Physician</td><td>An internist who specializes in diseases of the heart and blood vessels and manages complex cardiac conditions such as heart attacks and life-threatening, abnormal heartbeat rhythms.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RC0001X">207RC0001X</a></td><td>Clinical Cardiac Electrophysiology Physician</td><td>A field of special interest within the subspecialty of cardiovascular disease, specialty of Internal Medicine, which involves intricate technical procedures to evaluate heart rhythms and determine appropriate treatment for them.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RC0200X">207RC0200X</a></td><td>Critical Care Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist who diagnoses, treats and supports patients with multiple organ dysfunction. This specialist may have administrative responsibilities for intensive care units and may also facilitate and coordinate patient care among the primary physician, the critical care staff and other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RE0101X">207RE0101X</a></td><td>Endocrinology, Diabetes &amp; Metabolism Physician</td><td>An internist who concentrates on disorders of the internal (endocrine) glands such as the thyroid and adrenal glands. This specialist also deals with disorders such as diabetes, metabolic and nutritional disorders, obesity, pituitary diseases and menstrual and sexual problems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RG0100X">207RG0100X</a></td><td>Gastroenterology Physician</td><td>An internist who specializes in diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the digestive organs including the stomach, bowels, liver and gallbladder. This specialist treats conditions such as abdominal pain, ulcers, diarrhea, cancer and jaundice and performs complex diagnostic and therapeutic procedures using endoscopes to visualize internal organs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RG0300X">207RG0300X</a></td><td>Geriatric Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist who has special knowledge of the aging process and special skills in the diagnostic, therapeutic, preventive and rehabilitative aspects of illness in the elderly. This specialist cares for geriatric patients in the patient's home, the office, long-term care settings such as nursing homes and the hospital.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RH0000X">207RH0000X</a></td><td>Hematology (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist with additional training who specializes in diseases of the blood, spleen and lymph. This specialist treats conditions such as anemia, clotting disorders, sickle cell disease, hemophilia, leukemia and lymphoma.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RH0002X">207RH0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internal medicine physician with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RH0003X">207RH0003X</a></td><td>Hematology &amp; Oncology Physician</td><td>An internist doctor of osteopathy that specializes in the treatment of the combination of hematology and oncology disorders.  A doctor of osteopathy that is board eligible/certified by the American Osteopathic Board of Internal Medicine WAS able to obtain a Certificate of Special Qualifications in the field of Hematology and Oncology.  The Certificate is NO longer offered.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RH0005X">207RH0005X</a></td><td>Hypertension Specialist Physician</td><td>A Hypertension Specialist is a physician who concentrates on all aspects of the diagnosis and treatment of hypertension.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RI0001X">207RI0001X</a></td><td>Clinical &amp; Laboratory Immunology (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internal medicine physician who specializes in clinical and laboratory immunology disease management.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RI0008X">207RI0008X</a></td><td>Hepatology Physician</td><td>The discipline of Hepatology encompasses the structure, function, and diseases of the liver and biliary tract. The American Board of Internal Medicine considers Hepatology part of the subspecialty of gastroenterology. Physicians who identify themselves as Hepatologists usually, but not always, have been trained in gastrointestinal programs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RI0011X">207RI0011X</a></td><td>Interventional Cardiology Physician</td><td>An area of medicine within the subspecialty of cardiology, which uses specialized imaging and other diagnostic techniques to evaluate blood flow and pressure in the coronary arteries and chambers of the heart and uses technical procedures and medications to treat abnormalities that impair the function of the cardiovascular system.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RI0200X">207RI0200X</a></td><td>Infectious Disease Physician</td><td>An internist who deals with infectious diseases of all types and in all organ systems. Conditions requiring selective use of antibiotics call for this special skill. This physician often diagnoses and treats AIDS patients and patients with fevers which have not been explained. Infectious disease specialists may also have expertise in preventive medicine and travel medicine.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RM1200X">207RM1200X</a></td><td>Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Internal Medicine Physician</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RN0300X">207RN0300X</a></td><td>Nephrology Physician</td><td>An internist who treats disorders of the kidney, high blood pressure, fluid and mineral balance and dialysis of body wastes when the kidneys do not function. This specialist consults with surgeons about kidney transplantation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RP1001X">207RP1001X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Disease Physician</td><td>An internist who treats diseases of the lungs and airways. The pulmonologist diagnoses and treats cancer, pneumonia, pleurisy, asthma, occupational and environmental diseases, bronchitis, sleep disorders, emphysema and other complex disorders of the lungs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RR0500X">207RR0500X</a></td><td>Rheumatology Physician</td><td>An internist who treats diseases of joints, muscle, bones and tendons. This specialist diagnoses and treats arthritis, back pain, muscle strains, common athletic injuries and "collagen" diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RS0010X">207RS0010X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An internist trained to be responsible for continuous care in the field of sports medicine, not only for the enhancement of health and fitness, but also for the prevention of injury and illness. A sports medicine physician must have knowledge and experience in the promotion of wellness and the prevention of injury. Knowledge about special areas of medicine such as exercise physiology, biomechanics, nutrition, psychology, physical rehabilitation, epidemiology, physical evaluation, injuries (treatment and prevention and referral practice) and the role of exercise in promoting a healthy lifestyle are essential to the practice of sports medicine. The sports medicine physician requires special education to provide the knowledge to improve the healthcare of the individual.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RS0012X">207RS0012X</a></td><td>Sleep Medicine (Internal Medicine) Physician</td><td>An Internist who practices Sleep Medicine is certified in the subspecialty of sleep medicine and specializes in the clinical assessment, physiologic testing, diagnosis, management and prevention of sleep and circadian rhythm disorders. Sleep specialists treat patients of any age and use multidisciplinary approaches. Disorders managed by sleep specialists include, but are not limited to, sleep related breathing disorders, insomnia, hypersomnias, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, parasomnias and sleep related movement disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RT0003X">207RT0003X</a></td><td>Transplant Hepatology Physician</td><td>An internist with special knowledge and the skill required of a gastroenterologist to care for patients prior to and following hepatic transplantation that spans all phases of liver transplantation. Selection of appropriate recipients requires assessment by a team having experience in evaluating the severity and prognosis of patients with liver disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207RX0202X">207RX0202X</a></td><td>Medical Oncology Physician</td><td>An internist who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of all types of cancer and other benign and malignant tumors. This specialist decides on and administers therapy for these malignancies as well as consults with surgeons and radiotherapists on other treatments for cancer.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207SC0300X">207SC0300X</a></td><td>Clinical Cytogenetics Physician</td><td>A clinical cytogeneticist demonstrates competence in providing laboratory diagnostic and clinical interpretive services dealing with cellular components, particularly chromosomes, associated with heredity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207SG0201X">207SG0201X</a></td><td>Clinical Genetics (M.D.) Physician</td><td>A clinical geneticist demonstrates competence in providing comprehensive diagnostic, management and counseling services for genetic disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207SG0202X">207SG0202X</a></td><td>Clinical Biochemical Genetics Physician</td><td>A clinical biochemical geneticist demonstrates competence in performing and interpreting biochemical analyses relevant to the diagnosis and management of human genetic diseases and is a consultant regarding laboratory diagnosis of a broad range of inherited disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207SG0203X">207SG0203X</a></td><td>Clinical Molecular Genetics Physician</td><td>A clinical molecular geneticist demonstrates competence in performing and interpreting molecular analyses relevant to the diagnosis and management of human genetic diseases and is a consultant regarding laboratory diagnosis of a broad range of inherited disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207SG0205X">207SG0205X</a></td><td>Ph.D. Medical Genetics Physician</td><td>A medical geneticist works in association with a medical specialist, is affiliated with a clinical genetics program and serves as a consultant to medical and dental specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207SM0001X">207SM0001X</a></td><td>Molecular Genetic Pathology (Medical Genetics) Physician</td><td>A board certified subspecialty, the molecular genetic pathologist is expert in the principles, theory and technologies of molecular biology and molecular genetics. This expertise is used to make or confirm diagnoses of Mendelian genetic disorders, of human development, infectious diseases and malignancies and to assess the natural history of those disorders. A molecular genetic pathologist provides information about gene structure, function and alteration, and applies laboratory techniques for diagnosis, treatment and prognosis for individuals with related disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207T00000X">207T00000X</a></td><td>Neurological Surgery Physician</td><td>A neurological surgeon provides the operative and non-operative management (i.e., prevention, diagnosis, evaluation, treatment, critical care, and rehabilitation) of disorders of the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems, including their supporting structures and vascular supply; the evaluation and treatment of pathological processes which modify function or activity of the nervous system; and the operative and non-operative management of pain. A neurological surgeon treats patients with disorders of the nervous system; disorders of the brain, meninges, skull, and their blood supply, including the extracranial carotid and vertebral arteries; disorders of the pituitary gland; disorders of the spinal cord, meninges, and vertebral column, including those which may require treatment by spinal fusion or instrumentation; and disorders of the cranial and spinal nerves throughout their distribution.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207U00000X">207U00000X</a></td><td>Nuclear Medicine Physician</td><td>A nuclear medicine specialist employs the properties of radioactive atoms and molecules in the diagnosis and treatment of disease and in research. Radiation detection and imaging instrument systems are used to detect disease as it changes the function and metabolism of normal cells, tissues and organs. A wide variety of diseases can be found in this way, usually before the structure of the organ involved by the disease can be seen to be abnormal by any other techniques. Early detection of coronary artery disease (including acute heart attack), early cancer detection and evaluation of the effect of tumor treatment, diagnosis of infection and inflammation anywhere in the body and early detection of blood clot in the lungs are all possible with these techniques. Unique forms of radioactive molecules can attack and kill cancer cells (e.g., lymphoma, thyroid cancer) or can relieve the severe pain of cancer that has spread to bone</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207UN0901X">207UN0901X</a></td><td>Nuclear Cardiology Physician</td><td>A nuclear medicine physician who specializes in nuclear cardiology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207UN0902X">207UN0902X</a></td><td>Nuclear Imaging &amp; Therapy Physician</td><td>A nuclear medicine physician who specializes in nuclear imaging and therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207UN0903X">207UN0903X</a></td><td>In Vivo &amp; In Vitro Nuclear Medicine Physician</td><td>A nuclear medicine physician who specializes in in vivo and in vitro nuclear medicine.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207V00000X">207V00000X</a></td><td>Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology Physician</td><td>An obstetrician/gynecologist possesses special knowledge, skills and professional capability in the medical and surgical care of the female reproductive system and associated disorders. This physician serves as a consultant to other physicians and as a primary physician for women.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VB0002X">207VB0002X</a></td><td>Obesity Medicine (Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the treatment of obesity demonstrates competency in and a thorough understanding of the treatment of obesity and the genetic, biologic, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that contribute to obesity. The obesity medicine physician employs therapeutic interventions including diet, physical activity, behavioral change, and pharmacotherapy. The obesity medicine physician utilizes a comprehensive approach, and may include additional resources such as dietitians, exercise physiologists, mental health professionals and bariatric surgeons as indicated to achieve optimal results. Additionally, the obesity medicine physician maintains competency in providing pre- peri- and post-surgical care of bariatric surgery patients, promotes the prevention of obesity, and advocates for those who suffer from obesity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VC0200X">207VC0200X</a></td><td>Critical Care Medicine (Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology) Physician</td><td>An obstetrician/gynecologist, who specializes in critical care medicine diagnoses, treats and supports female patients with multiple organ dysfunction. This specialist may have administrative responsibilities for intensive care units and may also facilitate and coordinate patient care among the primary physician, the critical care staff and other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VE0102X">207VE0102X</a></td><td>Reproductive Endocrinology Physician</td><td>An obstetrician/gynecologist who is capable of managing complex problems relating to reproductive endocrinology and infertility.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VF0040X">207VF0040X</a></td><td>Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery (Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology) Physician</td><td>A subspecialist in Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery is a physician in Urology or Obstetrics and Gynecology who, by virtue of education and training, is prepared to provide consultation and comprehensive management of women with complex benign pelvic conditions, lower urinary tract disorders, and pelvic floor dysfunction. Comprehensive management includes those diagnostic and therapeutic procedures necessary for the total care of the patient with these conditions and complications resulting from them.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VG0400X">207VG0400X</a></td><td>Gynecology Physician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VH0002X">207VH0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology) Physician</td><td>An obstetrician/gynecologist with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VM0101X">207VM0101X</a></td><td>Maternal &amp; Fetal Medicine Physician</td><td>An obstetrician/gynecologist who cares for, or provides consultation on, patients with complications of pregnancy. This specialist has advanced knowledge of the obstetrical, medical and surgical complications of pregnancy and their effect on both the mother and the fetus. The specialist also possesses expertise in the most current diagnostic and treatment modalities used in the care of patients with complicated pregnancies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VX0000X">207VX0000X</a></td><td>Obstetrics Physician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207VX0201X">207VX0201X</a></td><td>Gynecologic Oncology Physician</td><td>An obstetrician/gynecologist who provides consultation and comprehensive management of patients with gynecologic cancer, including those diagnostic and therapeutic procedures necessary for the total care of the patient with gynecologic cancer and resulting complications.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207W00000X">207W00000X</a></td><td>Ophthalmology Physician</td><td>An ophthalmologist has the knowledge and professional skills needed to provide comprehensive eye and vision care. Ophthalmologists are medically trained to diagnose, monitor and medically or surgically treat all ocular and visual disorders. This includes problems affecting the eye and its component structures, the eyelids, the orbit and the visual pathways. In so doing, an ophthalmologist prescribes vision services, including glasses and contact lenses.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0009X">207WX0009X</a></td><td>Glaucoma Specialist (Ophthalmology) Physician</td><td>An ophthalmologist who specializes in the treatment of glaucoma and other disorders related to increased intraocular pressure and optic nerve damage.  This specialty involves the medical and surgical treatment of these conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0107X">207WX0107X</a></td><td>Retina Specialist (Ophthalmology) Physician</td><td>An ophthalmologist who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of vitreoretinal diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0108X">207WX0108X</a></td><td>Uveitis and Ocular Inflammatory Disease (Ophthalmology) Physician</td><td>An ophthalmologist who specializes in the treatment of intraocular inflammation, scleritis, keratitis and infectious disorders affecting the eye and inflammatory disorders of the adnexa and/or orbit.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0109X">207WX0109X</a></td><td>Neuro-ophthalmology Physician</td><td>A neuro-ophthalmologist is a subspecialist of ophthalmology.  This physician evaluates, treats, and studies disorders of the eye, orbit and nervous system having to do with interactions of the visual motor and visual sensory systems with the central nervous system. Neuro-ophthalmologists manage patients with complex and severe neuro-ophthalmological disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0110X">207WX0110X</a></td><td>Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus Specialist Physician</td><td>An ophthalmologist who specializes in pediatric ophthalmology and strabismus management. The subspecialty includes the medical and surgical management of eye disorders found in children. Some of the more common disorders include amblyopia, strabismus, refractive error, cataract and glaucoma. These disorders may be related to neurological and endocrinological diseases, trauma, or aging changes in the extraocular muscles requiring medical, optical and surgical management.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0120X">207WX0120X</a></td><td>Cornea and External Diseases Specialist Physician</td><td>An ophthalmologist who specializes in diseases of the cornea, sclera, eyelids, conjunctiva, and anterior segment of the eye.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207WX0200X">207WX0200X</a></td><td>Ophthalmic Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in oculofacial plastic and reconstructive surgery. This subspecialty combines orbital and periocular surgery with facial plastic surgery, and includes aesthetic and reconstructive surgery of the face, orbit, eyelid, and lacrimal system. Practitioners evaluate, diagnose and treat conditions involving the eyelids, brows, midface, orbits, lacrimal systems and surrounding and supporting structures of the face and neck.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207X00000X">207X00000X</a></td><td>Orthopaedic Surgery Physician</td><td>An orthopaedic surgeon is trained in the preservation, investigation and restoration of the form and function of the extremities, spine and associated structures by medical, surgical and physical means.  An orthopaedic surgeon is involved with the care of patients whose musculoskeletal problems include congenital deformities, trauma, infections, tumors, metabolic disturbances of the musculoskeletal system, deformities, injuries and degenerative diseases of the spine, hands, feet, knee, hip, shoulder and elbow in children and adults. An orthopaedic surgeon is also concerned with primary and secondary muscular problems and the effects of central or peripheral nervous system lesions of the musculoskeletal system.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XP3100X">207XP3100X</a></td><td>Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery Physician</td><td>An orthopedic surgeon who has additional training and experience in diagnosing, treating and managing musculoskeletal problems in infants, children and adolescents.  These may include limb and spine deformities (such as club foot, scoliosis); gait abnormalities (limping); bone and joint infections; broken bones.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XS0106X">207XS0106X</a></td><td>Orthopaedic Hand Surgery Physician</td><td>An orthopaedic surgeon trained in the investigation, preservation and restoration by medical, surgical and rehabilitative means of all structures of the upper extremity directly affecting the form and function of the hand and wrist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XS0114X">207XS0114X</a></td><td>Adult Reconstructive Orthopaedic Surgery Physician</td><td>Recognized by several state medical boards as a fellowship subspecialty program of orthopaedic surgery, adult reconstructive orthopaedic surgeons deal with reconstructive procedures such as joint arthroplasty (i.e., hip and knee), osteotomy, arthroscopy, soft-tissue reconstruction, and a variety of other adult reconstructive surgical procedures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XS0117X">207XS0117X</a></td><td>Orthopaedic Surgery of the Spine Physician</td><td>Recognized by several state medical boards as a fellowship subspecialty program of orthopaedic surgery, orthopaedic surgeons of the spine deal with the evaluation and nonoperative and operative treatment of the full spectrum of primary spinal disorders including trauma, degenerative, deformity, tumor, and reconstructive.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XX0004X">207XX0004X</a></td><td>Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Surgery Physician</td><td>Recognized by several state medical boards as a fellowship subspecialty program of orthopaedic surgery, foot and ankle surgeons deal with adult reconstructive foot and ankle surgery, adult foot and ankle trauma, sports medicine foot and ankle, and children's foot and ankle reconstructive surgery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XX0005X">207XX0005X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Orthopaedic Surgery) Physician</td><td>An orthopaedic surgeon trained in sports medicine provides appropriate care for all structures of the musculoskeletal system directly affected by participation in sporting activity. This specialist is proficient in areas including conditioning, training and fitness, athletic performance and the impact of dietary supplements, pharmaceuticals, and nutrition on performance and health, coordination of care within the team setting utilizing other health care professionals, field evaluation and management, soft tissue biomechanics and injury healing and repair. Knowledge and understanding of the principles and techniques of rehabilitation, athletic equipment and orthotic devices enables the specialist to prevent and manage athletic injuries.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207XX0801X">207XX0801X</a></td><td>Orthopaedic Trauma Physician</td><td>Recognized by several state medical boards as a fellowship subspecialty program of orthopaedic surgery, orthopaedic trauma surgeons deal with the evaluation and management of acute orthopaedic injuries, evaluation and treatment of post-traumatic deformities and nonunions, acute and delayed reconstruction of pelvic and acetabular fractures, as well as osteotomy in the adult hip for treatment of hip arthritis.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207Y00000X">207Y00000X</a></td><td>Otolaryngology Physician</td><td>An otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon provides comprehensive medical and surgical care for patients with diseases and disorders that affect the ears, nose, throat, the respiratory and upper alimentary systems and related structures of the head and neck. An otolaryngologist diagnoses and provides medical and/or surgical therapy or prevention of diseases, allergies, neoplasms, deformities, disorders and/or injuries of the ears, nose, sinuses, throat, respiratory and upper alimentary systems, face, jaws and the other head and neck systems. Head and neck oncology, facial plastic and reconstructive surgery and the treatment of disorders of hearing and voice are fundamental areas of expertise.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YP0228X">207YP0228X</a></td><td>Pediatric Otolaryngology Physician</td><td>A pediatric otolaryngologist has special expertise in the management of infants and children with disorders that include congenital and acquired conditions involving the aerodigestive tract, nose and paranasal sinuses, the ear and other areas of the head and neck. The pediatric otolaryngologist has special skills in the diagnosis, treatment, and management of childhood disorders of voice, speech, language and hearing.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YS0012X">207YS0012X</a></td><td>Sleep Medicine (Otolaryngology) Physician</td><td>An Otolaryngologist who practices Sleep Medicine is certified in the subspecialty of sleep medicine and specializes in the clinical assessment, physiologic testing, diagnosis, management and prevention of sleep and circadian rhythm disorders. Sleep specialists treat patients of any age and use multidisciplinary approaches. Disorders managed by sleep specialists include, but are not limited to, sleep related breathing disorders, insomnia, hypersomnias, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, parasomnias and sleep related movement disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YS0123X">207YS0123X</a></td><td>Facial Plastic Surgery Physician</td><td>An otolaryngologist who specializes in facial plastic surgery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YX0007X">207YX0007X</a></td><td>Plastic Surgery within the Head &amp; Neck (Otolaryngology) Physician</td><td>An otolaryngologist with additional training in plastic and reconstructive procedures within the head, face, neck and associated structures, including cutaneous head and neck oncology and reconstruction, management of maxillofacial trauma, soft tissue repair and neural surgery. The field is diverse and involves a wide age range of patients, from the newborn to the aged. While both cosmetic and reconstructive surgeries are practiced, there are many additional procedures which interface with them.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YX0602X">207YX0602X</a></td><td>Otolaryngic Allergy Physician</td><td>An otolaryngologist who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of otolaryngic allergies and other allergic diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YX0901X">207YX0901X</a></td><td>Otology &amp; Neurotology Physician</td><td>An otolaryngologist who treats diseases of the ear and temporal bone, including disorders of hearing and balance. The additional training in otology and neurotology emphasizes the study of embryology, anatomy, physiology, epidemiology, pathophysiology, pathology, genetics, immunology, microbiology and the etiology of diseases of the ear and temporal bone.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207YX0905X">207YX0905X</a></td><td>Otolaryngology/Facial Plastic Surgery Physician</td><td>An otolaryngologist who specializes in the diagnosis and surgical treatment of head and neck conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZB0001X">207ZB0001X</a></td><td>Blood Banking &amp; Transfusion Medicine Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in blood banking/transfusion medicine is responsible for the maintenance of an adequate blood supply, blood donor and patient-recipient safety and appropriate blood utilization. Pre-transfusion compatibility testing and antibody testing assure that blood transfusions, when indicated, are as safe as possible. This physician directs the preparation and safe use of specially prepared blood components, including red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets and plasma constituents, and marrow or stem cells for transplantation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZC0006X">207ZC0006X</a></td><td>Clinical Pathology Physician</td><td>A pathologist deals with the causes and nature of disease and contributes to diagnosis, prognosis and treatment through knowledge gained by the laboratory application of the biologic, chemical and physical sciences. A pathologist uses information gathered from the microscopic examination of tissue specimens, cells and body fluids, and from clinical laboratory tests on body fluids and secretions for the diagnosis, exclusion and monitoring of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZC0008X">207ZC0008X</a></td><td>Clinical Informatics (Pathology) Physician</td><td>Physicians who practice Clinical Informatics collaborate with other health care and information technology professionals to analyze, design, implement and evaluate information and communication systems that enhance individual and population health outcomes, improve patient care, and strengthen the clinician-patient relationship. Clinical Informaticians use their knowledge of patient care combined with their understanding of informatics concepts, methods, and tools to: assess information and knowledge needs of health care professionals and patients; characterize, evaluate, and refine clinical processes; develop, implement, and refine clinical decision support systems; and lead or participate in the procurement, customization, development, implementation, management, evaluation, and continuous improvement of clinical information systems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZC0500X">207ZC0500X</a></td><td>Cytopathology Physician</td><td>A cytopathologist is an anatomic pathologist trained in the diagnosis of human disease by means of the study of cells obtained from body secretions and fluids, by scraping, washing, or sponging the surface of a lesion, or by the aspiration of a tumor mass or body organ with a fine needle.  A major aspect of a cytopathologist's practice is the interpretation of Papanicolaou-stained smears of cells from the female reproductive systems, the "Pap" test.  However, the cytopathologist's expertise is applied to the diagnosis of cells from all systems and areas of the body.  He/she is a consultant to all medical specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZD0900X">207ZD0900X</a></td><td>Dermatopathology (Pathology) Physician</td><td>A dermatopathologist is an expert in diagnosing and monitoring diseases of the skin including infectious, immunologic, degenerative, and neoplastic diseases.  This entails the examination and interpretation of specially prepared tissue sections, cellular scrapings, and smears of skin lesions by means of light microscopy, electron microscopy, and fluorescence microscopy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZF0201X">207ZF0201X</a></td><td>Forensic Pathology Physician</td><td>A forensic pathologist is expert in investigating and evaluating cases of sudden, unexpected, suspicious and violent death as well as other specific classes of death defined by law. The forensic pathologist serves the public as coroner or medical examiner, or by performing medicolegal autopsies for such officials.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZH0000X">207ZH0000X</a></td><td>Hematology (Pathology) Physician</td><td>A hematopathologist is expert in diseases that affect blood cells, blood clotting mechanisms, bone marrow and lymph nodes. This physician has the knowledge and technical skills essential for the laboratory diagnosis of anemias, leukemias, lymphomas, bleeding disorders and blood clotting disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZI0100X">207ZI0100X</a></td><td>Immunopathology Physician</td><td>A pathologist who specializes in the diagnosis of immunologic diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZM0300X">207ZM0300X</a></td><td>Medical Microbiology Physician</td><td>A medical microbiologist is expert in the isolation and identification of microbial agents that cause infectious disease. Viruses, bacteria and fungi, as well as parasites, are identified and, where possible, tested for susceptibility to appropriate antimicrobial agents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZN0500X">207ZN0500X</a></td><td>Neuropathology Physician</td><td>A neuropathologist is expert in the diagnosis of diseases of the nervous system and skeletal muscles and functions as a consultant primarily to neurologists and neurosurgeons. The neuropathologist is knowledgeable in the infirmities of humans as they affect the nervous and neuromuscular systems, be they degenerative, infectious, metabolic, immunologic, neoplastic, vascular or physical in nature.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZP0007X">207ZP0007X</a></td><td>Molecular Genetic Pathology (Pathology) Physician</td><td>A molecular genetic pathologist is expert in the principles, theory and technologies of molecular biology and molecular genetics. This expertise is used to make or confirm diagnoses of Mendelian genetic disorders, disorders of human development, infectious diseases and malignancies, and to assess the natural history of those disorders. A molecular genetic pathologist provides information about gene structure, function and alteration and applies laboratory techniques for diagnosis, treatment and prognosis for individuals with related disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZP0101X">207ZP0101X</a></td><td>Anatomic Pathology Physician</td><td>A pathologist deals with the causes and nature of disease and contributes to diagnosis, prognosis and treatment through knowledge gained by the laboratory application of the biologic, chemical and physical sciences. A pathologist uses information gathered from the microscopic examination of tissue specimens, cells and body fluids, and from clinical laboratory tests on body fluids and secretions for the diagnosis, exclusion and monitoring of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZP0102X">207ZP0102X</a></td><td>Anatomic Pathology &amp; Clinical Pathology Physician</td><td>A pathologist deals with the causes and nature of disease and contributes to diagnosis, prognosis and treatment through knowledge gained by the laboratory application of the biologic, chemical and physical sciences. A pathologist uses information gathered from the microscopic examination of tissue specimens, cells and body fluids, and from clinical laboratory tests on body fluids and secretions for the diagnosis, exclusion and monitoring of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZP0104X">207ZP0104X</a></td><td>Chemical Pathology Physician</td><td>A chemical pathologist has expertise in the biochemistry of the human body as it applies to the understanding of the cause and progress of disease. This physician functions as a clinical consultant in the diagnosis and treatment of human disease. Chemical pathology entails the application of biochemical data to the detection, confirmation or monitoring of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZP0105X">207ZP0105X</a></td><td>Clinical Pathology/Laboratory Medicine Physician</td><td>A pathologist deals with the causes and nature of disease and contributes to diagnosis, prognosis and treatment through knowledge gained by the laboratory application of the biologic, chemical and physical sciences. A pathologist uses information gathered from the microscopic examination of tissue specimens, cells and body fluids, and from clinical laboratory tests on body fluids and secretions for the diagnosis, exclusion and monitoring of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-207ZP0213X">207ZP0213X</a></td><td>Pediatric Pathology Physician</td><td>A pediatric pathologist is expert in the laboratory diagnosis of diseases that occur during fetal growth, infancy and child development. The practice requires a strong foundation in general pathology and substantial understanding of normal growth and development, along with extensive knowledge of pediatric medicine.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208000000X">208000000X</a></td><td>Pediatrics Physician</td><td>A pediatrician is concerned with the physical, emotional and social health of children from birth to young adulthood. Care encompasses a broad spectrum of health services ranging from preventive healthcare to the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic diseases. A pediatrician deals with biological, social and environmental influences on the developing child, and with the impact of disease and dysfunction on development.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080A0000X">2080A0000X</a></td><td>Pediatric Adolescent Medicine Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who specializes in adolescent medicine is a multi-disciplinary healthcare specialist trained in the unique physical, psychological and social characteristics of adolescents, their healthcare problems and needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080B0002X">2080B0002X</a></td><td>Pediatric Obesity Medicine Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the treatment of obesity demonstrates competency in and a thorough understanding of the treatment of obesity and the genetic, biologic, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that contribute to obesity. The obesity medicine physician employs therapeutic interventions including diet, physical activity, behavioral change, and pharmacotherapy. The obesity medicine physician utilizes a comprehensive approach, and may include additional resources such as dietitians, exercise physiologists, mental health professionals and bariatric surgeons as indicated to achieve optimal results. Additionally, the obesity medicine physician maintains competency in providing pre- peri- and post-surgical care of bariatric surgery patients, promotes the prevention of obesity, and advocates for those who suffer from obesity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080C0008X">2080C0008X</a></td><td>Child Abuse Pediatrics Physician</td><td>A Child Abuse Pediatrician serves as a resource to children, families and communities by accurately diagnosing abuse; consulting with community agencies on child safety; providing expertise in courts of law; treating consequences of abuse and neglect; directing child abuse and neglect prevention programs and participating on multidisciplinary teams investigating; and managing child abuse cases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080H0002X">2080H0002X</a></td><td>Pediatric Hospice and Palliative Medicine Physician</td><td>A pediatrician with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080I0007X">2080I0007X</a></td><td>Pediatric Clinical &amp; Laboratory Immunology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who specializes in clinical and laboratory immunology disease management.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080N0001X">2080N0001X</a></td><td>Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who is the principal care provider for sick newborn infants. Clinical expertise is used for direct patient care and for consulting with obstetrical colleagues to plan for the care of mothers who have high-risk pregnancies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0006X">2080P0006X</a></td><td>Developmental – Behavioral Pediatrics Physician</td><td>A developmental-behavioral specialist is a pediatrician with special training and experience who aims to foster understanding and promotion of optimal development of children and families through research, education, clinical care and advocacy efforts. This physician assists in the prevention, diagnosis, and management of developmental difficulties and problematic behaviors in children and in the family dysfunctions that compromise children's development.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0008X">2080P0008X</a></td><td>Pediatric Neurodevelopmental Disabilities Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who specializes in the treatment of individuals with developmental delays and learning disorders associated with cerebral palsy, spina bifida, autism, and other chronic neurologic conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0201X">2080P0201X</a></td><td>Pediatric Allergy/Immunology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of allergies, allergic reactions, and immunologic diseases in children.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0202X">2080P0202X</a></td><td>Pediatric Cardiology Physician</td><td>A pediatric cardiologist provides comprehensive care to patients with cardiovascular problems. This specialist is skilled in selecting, performing and evaluating the structural and functional assessment of the heart and blood vessels, and the clinical evaluation of cardiovascular disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0203X">2080P0203X</a></td><td>Pediatric Critical Care Medicine Physician</td><td>A pediatrician expert in advanced life support for children from the term or near-term neonate to the adolescent. This competence extends to the critical care management of life-threatening organ system failure from any cause in both medical and surgical patients and to the support of vital physiological functions. This specialist may have administrative responsibilities for intensive care units and also facilitates patient care among other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0204X">2080P0204X</a></td><td>Pediatric Emergency Medicine (Pediatrics) Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who has special qualifications to manage emergencies in infants and children.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0205X">2080P0205X</a></td><td>Pediatric Endocrinology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who provides expert care to infants, children and adolescents who have diseases that result from an abnormality in the endocrine glands (glands which secrete hormones). These diseases include diabetes mellitus, growth failure, unusual size for age, early or late pubertal development, birth defects, the genital region and disorders of the thyroid, the adrenal and pituitary glands.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0206X">2080P0206X</a></td><td>Pediatric Gastroenterology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the digestive systems of infants, children and adolescents. This specialist treats conditions such as abdominal pain, ulcers, diarrhea, cancer and jaundice and performs complex diagnostic and therapeutic procedures using lighted scopes to see internal organs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0207X">2080P0207X</a></td><td>Pediatric Hematology &amp; Oncology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician trained in the combination of pediatrics, hematology and oncology to recognize and manage pediatric blood disorders and cancerous diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0208X">2080P0208X</a></td><td>Pediatric Infectious Diseases Physician</td><td>A pediatrician trained to care for children in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of infectious diseases. This specialist can apply specific knowledge to affect a better outcome for pediatric infections with complicated courses, underlying diseases that predispose to unusual or severe infections, unclear diagnoses, uncommon diseases and complex or investigational treatments.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0210X">2080P0210X</a></td><td>Pediatric Nephrology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who deals with the normal and abnormal development and maturation of the kidney and urinary tract, the mechanisms by which the kidney can be damaged, the evaluation and treatment of renal diseases, fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, hypertension and renal replacement therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0214X">2080P0214X</a></td><td>Pediatric Pulmonology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician dedicated to the prevention and treatment of all respiratory diseases affecting infants, children and young adults. This specialist is knowledgeable about the growth and development of the lung, assessment of respiratory function in infants and children, and experienced in a variety of invasive and noninvasive diagnostic techniques.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080P0216X">2080P0216X</a></td><td>Pediatric Rheumatology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who treats diseases of joints, muscle, bones and tendons. A pediatric rheumatologist diagnoses and treats arthritis, back pain, muscle strains, common athletic injuries and "collagen" diseases.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080S0010X">2080S0010X</a></td><td>Pediatric Sports Medicine Physician</td><td>A pediatrician who is responsible for continuous care in the field of sports medicine, not only for the enhancement of health and fitness, but also for the prevention of injury and illness. A sports medicine physician must have knowledge and experience in the promotion of wellness and the prevention of injury. Knowledge about special areas of medicine such as exercise physiology, biomechanics, nutrition, psychology, physical rehabilitation, epidemiology, physical evaluation, injuries (treatment and prevention and referral practice) and the role of exercise in promoting a healthy lifestyle are essential to the practice of sports medicine. The sports medicine physician requires special education to provide the knowledge to improve the healthcare of the individual engaged in physical exercise (sports) whether as an individual or in team participation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080S0012X">2080S0012X</a></td><td>Pediatric Sleep Medicine Physician</td><td>A Pediatrician who practices Sleep Medicine is certified in the subspecialty of sleep medicine and specializes in the clinical assessment, physiologic testing, diagnosis, management and prevention of sleep and circadian rhythm disorders. Sleep specialists treat patients of any age and use multidisciplinary approaches. Disorders managed by sleep specialists include, but are not limited to, sleep related breathing disorders, insomnia, hypersomnias, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, parasomnias and sleep related movement disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080T0002X">2080T0002X</a></td><td>Pediatric Medical Toxicology Physician</td><td>Medical toxicologists are physicians that specialize in the prevention, evaluation, treatment and monitoring of injury and illness from exposures to drugs and chemicals, as well as biological and radiological agents. Medical toxicologists care for people in clinical, academic, governmental and public health settings, and provide poison control center leadership. Important areas of medical toxicology include acute drug poisoning, adverse drug events, drug abuse, addiction and withdrawal, chemicals and hazardous materials, terrorism preparedness, venomous bites and stings, and environmental and workplace exposures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2080T0004X">2080T0004X</a></td><td>Pediatric Transplant Hepatology Physician</td><td>A pediatrician with expertise in transplant hepatology encompasses the special knowledge and skill required of pediatric gastroenterologists to care for patients prior to and following hepatic transplantation; it spans all phases of liver transplantation.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208100000X">208100000X</a></td><td>Physical Medicine &amp; Rehabilitation Physician</td><td>Physical medicine and rehabilitation, also referred to as rehabilitation medicine, is the medical specialty concerned with diagnosing, evaluating, and treating patients with physical disabilities. These disabilities may arise from conditions affecting the musculoskeletal system such as neck and back pain, sports injuries, or other painful conditions affecting the limbs, such as carpal tunnel syndrome. Alternatively, the disabilities may result from neurological trauma or disease such as spinal cord injury, head injury or stroke. A physician certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation is often called a physiatrist. The primary goal of the physiatrist is to achieve maximal restoration of physical, psychological, social and vocational function through comprehensive rehabilitation. Pain management is often an important part of the role of the physiatrist. For diagnosis and evaluation, a physiatrist may include the techniques of electromyography to supplement the standard history, physical, x-ray and laboratory examinations. The physiatrist has expertise in the appropriate use of therapeutic exercise, prosthetics (artificial limbs), orthotics and mechanical and electrical devices.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081H0002X">2081H0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Physical Medicine &amp; Rehabilitation) Physician</td><td>A physical medicine and rehabilitation physician with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081N0008X">2081N0008X</a></td><td>Neuromuscular Medicine (Physical Medicine &amp; Rehabilitation) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in neuromuscular medicine possesses specialized knowledge in the science, clinical evaluation and management of these disorders. This encompasses the knowledge of the pathology, diagnosis and treatment of these disorders at a level that is significantly beyond the training and knowledge expected of a general neurologist, child neurologist or physiatrist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081P0004X">2081P0004X</a></td><td>Spinal Cord Injury Medicine Physician</td><td>A physician who addresses the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and management of traumatic spinal cord injury and non-traumatic etiologies of spinal cord dysfunction by working in an interdisciplinary manner. Care is provided to patients of all ages on a lifelong basis and covers related medical, physical, psychological and vocational disabilities and complications.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081P0010X">2081P0010X</a></td><td>Pediatric Rehabilitation Medicine Physician</td><td>A physiatrist who utilizes an interdisciplinary approach and addresses the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and management of congenital and childhood-onset physical impairments including related or secondary medical, physical, functional, psychosocial and vocational limitations or conditions, with an understanding of the life course of disability. This physician is trained in the identification of functional capabilities and selection of the best of rehabilitation intervention strategies, with an understanding of the continuum of care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081P0301X">2081P0301X</a></td><td>Brain Injury Medicine (Physical Medicine &amp; Rehabilitation) Physician</td><td>A Brain Injury Medicine physician specializes in disorders of brain function due to injury and disease.  These disorders encompass a range of medical, physical, neurologic, cognitive, sensory, and behavioral disorders that result in psychosocial, educational, and vocational consequences.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081P2900X">2081P2900X</a></td><td>Pain Medicine (Physical Medicine &amp; Rehabilitation) Physician</td><td>A physician who provides a high level of care, either as a primary physician or consultant, for patients experiencing problems with acute, chronic or cancer pain in both hospital and ambulatory settings. Patient care needs may also be coordinated with other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2081S0010X">2081S0010X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Physical Medicine &amp; Rehabilitation) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in Sports Medicine is responsible for continuous care related to the enhancement of health and fitness as well as the prevention of injury and illness. The specialist possesses knowledge and experience in the promotion of wellness and the prevention of injury from many areas of medicine such as exercise physiology, biomechanics, nutrition, psychology, physical rehabilitation, epidemiology, physical evaluation and injuries. It is the goal of a Sports Medicine specialist to improve the healthcare of the individual engaged in physical exercise.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208200000X">208200000X</a></td><td>Plastic Surgery Physician</td><td>A plastic surgeon deals with the repair, reconstruction or replacement of physical defects of form or function involving the skin, musculoskeletal system, craniomaxillofacial structures, hand, extremities, breast and trunk and external genitalia or cosmetic enhancement of these areas of the body. Cosmetic surgery is an essential component of plastic surgery. The plastic surgeon uses cosmetic surgical principles to both improve overall appearance and to optimize the outcome of reconstructive procedures. The surgeon uses aesthetic surgical principles not only to improve undesirable qualities of normal structures but in all reconstructive procedures as well.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2082S0099X">2082S0099X</a></td><td>Plastic Surgery Within the Head and Neck (Plastic Surgery) Physician</td><td>A plastic surgeon with additional training in plastic and reconstructive procedures within the head, face, neck and associated structures, including cutaneous head and neck oncology and reconstruction, management of maxillofacial trauma, soft tissue repair and neural surgery. The field is diverse and involves a wide age range of patients, from the newborn to the aged. While both cosmetic and reconstructive surgery is practiced, there are many additional procedures which interface with them.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2082S0105X">2082S0105X</a></td><td>Surgery of the Hand (Plastic Surgery) Physician</td><td>A plastic surgeon with additional training in the investigation, preservation, and restoration by medical, surgical and rehabilitative means of all structures of the upper extremity directly affecting the form and function of the hand and wrist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083A0100X">2083A0100X</a></td><td>Aerospace Medicine Physician</td><td>Aerospace medicine focuses on the clinical care, research, and operational support of the health, safety, and performance of crewmembers and passengers of air and space vehicles, together with the support personnel who assist operation of such vehicles. This population often works and lives in remote, isolated, extreme, or enclosed environments under conditions of physical and psychological stress. Practitioners strive for an optimal human-machine match in occupational settings rich with environmental hazards and engineering countermeasures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083A0300X">2083A0300X</a></td><td>Addiction Medicine (Preventive Medicine) Physician</td><td>A physician engaged in the subspecialty practice of Addiction Medicine who specializes in the prevention, evaluation, diagnosis, treatment, and recovery of persons with the disease of addiction.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083B0002X">2083B0002X</a></td><td>Obesity Medicine (Preventive Medicine) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the treatment of obesity demonstrates competency in and a thorough understanding of the treatment of obesity and the genetic, biologic, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that contribute to obesity. The obesity medicine physician employs therapeutic interventions including diet, physical activity, behavioral change, and pharmacotherapy. The obesity medicine physician utilizes a comprehensive approach, and may include additional resources such as dietitians, exercise physiologists, mental health professionals and bariatric surgeons as indicated to achieve optimal results. Additionally, the obesity medicine physician maintains competency in providing pre- peri- and post-surgical care of bariatric surgery patients, promotes the prevention of obesity, and advocates for those who suffer from obesity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083C0008X">2083C0008X</a></td><td>Clinical Informatics Physician</td><td>Physicians who practice Clinical Informatics collaborate with other health care and information technology professionals to analyze, design, implement and evaluate information and communication systems that enhance individual and population health outcomes, improve patient care, and strengthen the clinician-patient relationship. Clinical Informaticians use their knowledge of patient care combined with their understanding of informatics concepts, methods, and tools to: assess information and knowledge needs of health care professionals and patients; characterize, evaluate, and refine clinical processes; develop, implement, and refine clinical decision support systems; and lead or participate in the procurement, customization, development, implementation, management, evaluation, and continuous improvement of clinical information systems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083P0011X">2083P0011X</a></td><td>Undersea and Hyperbaric Medicine (Preventive Medicine) Physician</td><td>A specialist who treats decompression illness and diving accident cases and uses hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat such conditions as carbon monoxide poisoning, gas gangrene, non-healing wounds, tissue damage from radiation and burns and bone infections. This specialist also serves as consultant to other physicians in all aspects of hyperbaric chamber operations and assesses risks and applies appropriate standards to prevent disease and disability in divers and other persons working in altered atmospheric conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083P0500X">2083P0500X</a></td><td>Preventive Medicine/Occupational Environmental Medicine Physician</td><td>A preventive medicine physician who specializes in preventive medicine/occupational-environmental medicine, which is focused on protecting the population from occupational and environmental conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083P0901X">2083P0901X</a></td><td>Public Health &amp; General Preventive Medicine Physician</td><td>Public health and general preventive medicine focuses on promoting health, preventing disease, and managing the health of communities and defined populations. These practitioners combine population-based public health skills with knowledge of primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention-oriented clinical practice in a wide variety of settings.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083S0010X">2083S0010X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Preventive Medicine) Physician</td><td>A preventive medicine physician who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of sports related conditions and injuries.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083T0002X">2083T0002X</a></td><td>Medical Toxicology (Preventive Medicine) Physician</td><td>Medical toxicologists are physicians who specialize in the prevention, evaluation, treatment and monitoring of injury and illness from exposures to drugs and chemicals, as well as biological and radiological agents. Medical toxicologists care for people in clinical, academic, governmental and public health settings, and provide poison control center leadership. Important areas of medical toxicology include acute drug poisoning, adverse drug events, drug abuse, addiction and withdrawal, chemicals and hazardous materials, terrorism preparedness, venomous bites and stings, and environmental and workplace exposures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2083X0100X">2083X0100X</a></td><td>Occupational Medicine Physician</td><td>Occupational medicine focuses on the health of workers, including the ability to perform work; the physical, chemical, biological, and social environments of the workplace; and the health outcomes of environmental exposures. Practitioners in this field address the promotion of health in the work place, and the prevention and management of occupational and environmental injury, illness, and disability.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084A0401X">2084A0401X</a></td><td>Addiction Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A doctor of osteopathy board eligible/certified in the field of Psychiatry by the American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry is able to obtain a Certificate of Added Qualifications in the field of Addiction Medicine</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084A2900X">2084A2900X</a></td><td>Neurocritical Care Physician</td><td>The medical subspecialty of Neurocritical Care is devoted to the comprehensive, multisystem care of the critically-ill neurological patient. Like other intensivists, the neurointensivist generally assumes the primary role for coordinating the care of his or her patients in the ICU, both the neurological and medical management of the patient.  They may also provide consultative services for these patients as requested within the health system.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084B0002X">2084B0002X</a></td><td>Obesity Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A physician who specializes in the treatment of obesity demonstrates competency in and a thorough understanding of the treatment of obesity and the genetic, biologic, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that contribute to obesity. The obesity medicine physician employs therapeutic interventions including diet, physical activity, behavioral change, and pharmacotherapy. The obesity medicine physician utilizes a comprehensive approach, and may include additional resources such as dietitians, exercise physiologists, mental health professionals and bariatric surgeons as indicated to achieve optimal results. Additionally, the obesity medicine physician maintains competency in providing pre- peri- and post-surgical care of bariatric surgery patients, promotes the prevention of obesity, and advocates for those who suffer from obesity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084B0040X">2084B0040X</a></td><td>Behavioral Neurology &amp; Neuropsychiatry Physician</td><td>Behavioral Neurology &amp; Neuropsychiatry is a medical subspecialty involving the diagnosis and treatment of neurologically based behavioral issues.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084D0003X">2084D0003X</a></td><td>Diagnostic Neuroimaging (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A licensed physician, who has completed a residency program in Neurology, and who has additional training, experience, and competence in the standards of performance and interpretation of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI / MRA) of the head, spine, and peripheral nerves, and Computed Tomography (CT) of the head and spine. Physicians are trained in the administration of contrast media and the recognition and treatment of adverse reactions to contrast media. Neuroimaging training encompasses thorough knowledge of clinical neurology, neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, neuropharmacology, and dynamics of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.  Physicians possess special expertise in the technical aspects and clinical applications of each of the modalities and techniques of neuroimaging.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084F0202X">2084F0202X</a></td><td>Forensic Psychiatry Physician</td><td>Forensic Psychiatry is a subspecialty with psychiatric focus on interrelationships with civil, criminal and administrative law, evaluation and specialized treatment of individuals involved with the legal system, incarcerated in jails, prisons, and forensic psychiatry hospitals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084H0002X">2084H0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A psychiatrist or neurologist with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084N0008X">2084N0008X</a></td><td>Neuromuscular Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A neurologist or child neurologist who specializes in the diagnosis and management of disorders of nerve, muscle or neuromuscular junction, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, peripheral neuropathies (e.g., diabetic and immune mediated neuropathies), various muscular dystrophies, congenital and acquired myopathies, inflammatory myopathies (e.g., polymyositis, inclusion body myositis) and neuromuscular transmission disorders (e.g., myasthenia gravis, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084N0400X">2084N0400X</a></td><td>Neurology Physician</td><td>A Neurologist specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases or impaired function of the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves, muscles, autonomic nervous system, and blood vessels that relate to these structures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084N0402X">2084N0402X</a></td><td>Neurology with Special Qualifications in Child Neurology Physician</td><td>A Child Neurologist specializes in neurology with special skills in diagnosis and treatment of neurologic disorders of the neonatal period, infancy, early childhood, and adolescence.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084N0600X">2084N0600X</a></td><td>Clinical Neurophysiology Physician</td><td>Clinical Neurophysiology is a subspecialty with psychiatric or neurologic expertise in the diagnosis and management of central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous system disorders using combined clinical evaluation and electrophysiologic testing such as electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), and nerve conduction studies (NCS).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0005X">2084P0005X</a></td><td>Neurodevelopmental Disabilities Physician</td><td>A neurologist who specializes in the treatment of individuals with developmental delays and learning disorders associated with cerebral palsy, spina bifida, autism, and other chronic neurologic conditions.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0015X">2084P0015X</a></td><td>Psychosomatic Medicine Physician</td><td>Psychosomatic Medicine is subspecialty in the diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric disorders and symptoms in complex medically ill patients. This subspecialty includes treatment of patients with acute or chronic medical, neurological, obstetrical or surgical illness in which psychiatric illness is affecting their medical care and/or quality of life such as HIV infection, organ transplantation, heart disease, renal failure, cancer, stroke, traumatic brain injury, high-risk pregnancy and COPD, among others. Patients also may be those who have a psychiatric disorder that is the direct consequence of a primary medical condition, or a somatoform disorder or psychological factors affecting a general medical condition. Psychiatrists specializing in Psychosomatic Medicine provide consultation-liaison services in general medical hospitals, attend on medical psychiatry inpatient units, and provide collaborative care in primary care and other outpatient settings.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0301X">2084P0301X</a></td><td>Brain Injury Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A Brain Injury Medicine physician specializes in disorders of brain function due to injury and disease.  These disorders encompass a range of medical, physical, neurologic, cognitive, sensory, and behavioral disorders that result in psychosocial, educational, and vocational consequences.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0800X">2084P0800X</a></td><td>Psychiatry Physician</td><td>A Psychiatrist specializes in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of mental disorders, emotional disorders, psychotic disorders, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, substance-related disorders, sexual and gender identity disorders and adjustment disorders. Biologic, psychological, and social components of illnesses are explored and understood in treatment of the whole person. Tools used may include diagnostic laboratory tests, prescribed medications, evaluation and treatment of psychological and interpersonal problems with individuals and families, and intervention for coping with stress, crises, and other problems.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0802X">2084P0802X</a></td><td>Addiction Psychiatry Physician</td><td>Addiction Psychiatry is a subspecialty of psychiatry that focuses on evaluation and treatment of individuals with alcohol, drug, or other substance-related disorders, and of individuals with dual diagnosis of substance-related and other psychiatric disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0804X">2084P0804X</a></td><td>Child &amp; Adolescent Psychiatry Physician</td><td>Child &amp; Adolescent Psychiatry is a subspecialty of psychiatry with additional skills and training in the diagnosis and treatment of developmental, behavioral, emotional, and mental disorders of childhood and adolescence.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P0805X">2084P0805X</a></td><td>Geriatric Psychiatry Physician</td><td>Geriatric Psychiatry is a subspecialty with psychiatric expertise in prevention, evaluation, diagnosis and treatment of mental and emotional disorders in the elderly, and improvement of psychiatric care for healthy and ill elderly patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084P2900X">2084P2900X</a></td><td>Pain Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A neurologist, child neurologists or psychiatrist who provides a high level of care, either as a primary physician or consultant, for patients experiencing problems with acute, chronic or cancer pain in both hospital and ambulatory settings. Patient care needs may also be coordinated with other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084S0010X">2084S0010X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A psychiatrist or neurologist who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of sports related conditions and injuries.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084S0012X">2084S0012X</a></td><td>Sleep Medicine (Psychiatry &amp; Neurology) Physician</td><td>A Psychiatrist or Neurologist who practices Sleep Medicine is certified in the subspecialty of sleep medicine and specializes in the clinical assessment, physiologic testing, diagnosis, management and prevention of sleep and circadian rhythm disorders. Sleep specialists treat patients of any age and use multidisciplinary approaches. Disorders managed by sleep specialists include, but are not limited to, sleep related breathing disorders, insomnia, hypersomnias, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, parasomnias and sleep related movement disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2084V0102X">2084V0102X</a></td><td>Vascular Neurology Physician</td><td>Vascular Neurology is a subspecialty in the evaluation, prevention, treatment and recovery from vascular diseases of the nervous system. This subspecialty includes the diagnosis and treatment of vascular events of arterial or venous origin from a large number of causes that affect the brain or spinal cord such as ischemic stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, spinal cord ischemia and spinal cord hemorrhage.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085B0100X">2085B0100X</a></td><td>Body Imaging Physician</td><td>A Radiology doctor of Osteopathy that specializes in Body Imaging.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085D0003X">2085D0003X</a></td><td>Diagnostic Neuroimaging (Radiology) Physician</td><td>A licensed physician, who has completed a residency program in Neurology, and who has additional training, experience, and competence in the standards of performance and interpretation of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI / MRA) of the head, spine, and peripheral nerves, and Computed Tomography (CT) of the head and spine. Physicians are trained in the administration of contrast media and the recognition and treatment of adverse reactions to contrast media. Neuroimaging training encompasses thorough knowledge of clinical neurology, neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, neuropharmacology, and dynamics of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.  Physicians possess special expertise in the technical aspects and clinical applications of each of the modalities and techniques of neuroimaging.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085H0002X">2085H0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Radiology) Physician</td><td>A radiologist with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085N0700X">2085N0700X</a></td><td>Neuroradiology Physician</td><td>A radiologist who diagnoses and treats diseases utilizing imaging procedures as they relate to the brain, spine and spinal cord, head, neck and organs of special sense in adults and children.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085N0904X">2085N0904X</a></td><td>Nuclear Radiology Physician</td><td>A radiologist who is involved in the analysis and imaging of radionuclides and radiolabeled substances in vitro and in vivo for diagnosis and the administration of radionuclides and radiolabeled substances for the treatment of disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085P0229X">2085P0229X</a></td><td>Pediatric Radiology Physician</td><td>A radiologist who is proficient in all forms of diagnostic imaging as it pertains to the treatment of diseases in the newborn, infant, child and adolescent. This specialist has knowledge of both imaging and interventional procedures related to the care and management of diseases of children. A pediatric radiologist must be highly knowledgeable of all organ systems as they relate to growth and development, congenital malformations, diseases peculiar to infants and children and diseases that begin in childhood but cause substantial residual impairment in adulthood.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085R0001X">2085R0001X</a></td><td>Radiation Oncology Physician</td><td>A radiologist who deals with the therapeutic applications of radiant energy and its modifiers and the study and management of disease, especially malignant tumors.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085R0202X">2085R0202X</a></td><td>Diagnostic Radiology Physician</td><td>A radiologist who utilizes x-ray, radionuclides, ultrasound and electromagnetic radiation to diagnose and treat disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085R0203X">2085R0203X</a></td><td>Therapeutic Radiology Physician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085R0204X">2085R0204X</a></td><td>Vascular &amp; Interventional Radiology Physician</td><td>A radiologist who diagnoses and treats diseases by various radiologic imaging modalities. These include fluoroscopy, digital radiography, computed tomography, sonography and magnetic resonance imaging.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085R0205X">2085R0205X</a></td><td>Radiological Physics Physician</td><td>A radiological physicist deals with the diagnostic and therapeutic applications of roentgen rays, gamma rays from sealed sources, ultrasonic radiation and radio-frequency radiation, as well as the equipment associated with their production and use, including radiation safety.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2085U0001X">2085U0001X</a></td><td>Diagnostic Ultrasound Physician</td><td>A Radiology doctor of Osteopathy that specializes in Diagnostic Ultrasound.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208600000X">208600000X</a></td><td>Surgery Physician</td><td>A general surgeon has expertise related to the diagnosis - preoperative, operative and postoperative management - and management of complications of surgical conditions in the following areas: alimentary tract; abdomen; breast, skin and soft tissue; endocrine system; head and neck surgery; pediatric surgery; surgical critical care; surgical oncology; trauma and burns; and vascular surgery. General surgeons increasingly provide care through the use of minimally invasive and endoscopic techniques. Many general surgeons also possess expertise in transplantation surgery, plastic surgery and cardiothoracic surgery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086H0002X">2086H0002X</a></td><td>Hospice and Palliative Medicine (Surgery) Physician</td><td>A surgeon with special knowledge and skills to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life-limiting illnesses. This specialist works with an interdisciplinary hospice or palliative care team to maximize quality of life while addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs of both patient and family throughout the course of the disease, through the dying process, and beyond for the family.  This specialist has expertise in the assessment of patients with advanced disease; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary patient and family-centered care in diverse venues; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086S0102X">2086S0102X</a></td><td>Surgical Critical Care Physician</td><td>A surgeon with expertise in the management of the critically ill and postoperative patient, particularly the trauma victim, who specializes in critical care medicine diagnoses, treats and supports patients with multiple organ dysfunction. This specialist may have administrative responsibilities for intensive care units and may also facilitate and coordinate patient care among the primary physician, the critical care staff and other specialists.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086S0105X">2086S0105X</a></td><td>Surgery of the Hand (Surgery) Physician</td><td>A surgeon with expertise in the investigation, preservation and restoration by medical, surgical and rehabilitative means, of all structures of the upper extremity directly affecting the form and function of the hand and wrist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086S0120X">2086S0120X</a></td><td>Pediatric Surgery Physician</td><td>A surgeon with expertise in the management of surgical conditions in premature and newborn infants, children and adolescents.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086S0122X">2086S0122X</a></td><td>Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Physician</td><td>A surgeon who specializes in plastic and reconstructive surgery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086S0127X">2086S0127X</a></td><td>Trauma Surgery Physician</td><td>Trauma surgery is a recognized subspecialty of general surgery. Trauma surgeons are physicians who have completed a five-year general surgery residency and usually continue with a one to two year fellowship in trauma and/or surgical critical care, typically leading to additional board certification in surgical critical care. There is no trauma surgery board certification at this point. To obtain board certification in surgical critical care, a fellowship in surgical critical care or anesthesiology critical care must be completed during or after general surgery residency.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086S0129X">2086S0129X</a></td><td>Vascular Surgery Physician</td><td>A surgeon with expertise in the management of surgical disorders of the blood vessels, excluding the intracranial vessels or the heart.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2086X0206X">2086X0206X</a></td><td>Surgical Oncology Physician</td><td>A surgical oncologist is a well-qualified surgeon who has obtained additional training and experience in the multidisciplinary approach to the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of cancer patients, and devotes a major portion of his or her professional practice to these activities and cancer research.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208800000X">208800000X</a></td><td>Urology Physician</td><td>A urologist manages benign and malignant medical and surgical disorders of the genitourinary system and the adrenal gland. This specialist has comprehensive knowledge of and skills in endoscopic, percutaneous and open surgery of congenital and acquired conditions of the urinary and reproductive systems and their contiguous structures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2088F0040X">2088F0040X</a></td><td>Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery (Urology) Physician</td><td>A subspecialist in Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery is a physician in Urology or Obstetrics and Gynecology who, by virtue of education and training, is prepared to provide consultation and comprehensive management of women with complex benign pelvic conditions, lower urinary tract disorders, and pelvic floor dysfunction. Comprehensive management includes those diagnostic and therapeutic procedures necessary for the total care of the patient with these conditions and complications resulting from them.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2088P0231X">2088P0231X</a></td><td>Pediatric Urology Physician</td><td>Surgeons who can diagnose, treat, and manage children's urinary and genital problems. A pediatric urologist devotes a minimum of 50% of his or her practice to the urologic problems of infants, children, and adolescents.  Pediatric urologists generally provide the following services:  the evaluation and management of voiding disorders; vesicoureteral reflux, and urinary tract infections that require surgery; surgical reconstruction of the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, and bladder) including genital abnormalities, hypospadias, and intersex conditions; surgery for groin conditions in childhood and adolescence (undescended testes, hydrocele/hernia, varicocele).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208C00000X">208C00000X</a></td><td>Colon &amp; Rectal Surgery Physician</td><td>A colon and rectal surgeon is trained to diagnose and treat various diseases of the intestinal tract, colon, rectum, anal canal and perianal area by medical and surgical means. This specialist also deals with other organs and tissues (such as the liver, urinary and female reproductive system) involved with primary intestinal disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208D00000X">208D00000X</a></td><td>General Practice Physician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208G00000X">208G00000X</a></td><td>Thoracic Surgery (Cardiothoracic Vascular Surgery) Physician</td><td>A thoracic surgeon provides the operative, perioperative and critical care of patients with pathologic conditions within the chest. Included is the surgical care of coronary artery disease, cancers of the lung, esophagus and chest wall, abnormalities of the trachea, abnormalities of the great vessels and heart valves, congenital anomalies, tumors of the mediastinum and diseases of the diaphragm. The management of the airway and injuries of the chest is within the scope of the specialty.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208M00000X">208M00000X</a></td><td>Hospitalist Physician</td><td>Hospitalists are physicians whose primary professional focus is the general medical care of hospitalized patients. Their activities include patient care, teaching, research, and leadership related to Hospital Medicine. The term 'hospitalist' refers to physicians whose practice emphasizes providing care for hospitalized patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208U00000X">208U00000X</a></td><td>Clinical Pharmacology Physician</td><td>Clinical pharmacology encompasses the spectrum of activities related to the discovery, development, regulation, and utilization of safe and effective drugs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208VP0000X">208VP0000X</a></td><td>Pain Medicine Physician</td><td>Pain Medicine is a primary medical specialty based on a distinct body of knowledge and a well-defined scope of clinical practice that is founded on science, research and education.  It is concerned with the study of pain, the prevention of pain, and the evaluation, treatment, and rehabilitation of persons in pain.  A comprehensive evaluation incorporates the physical, psychological, cognitive and socio-cultural contributions to pain.  The treatment protocol may include pharmacological, invasive, behavioral, cognitive, rehabilitative and complementary strategies provided in a concurrent focused and patient specific manner.  The pain medicine physician often serves the patient as a frontline physician regarding their pain, but also may serve as a consultant to other physicians, direct an interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary treatment team, conduct research, or advocate for the patient's pain care with public and private agencies.  The Pain Medicine physician may work in variety of settings including office, clinic, hospital, university, or governmental/public agencies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-208VP0014X">208VP0014X</a></td><td>Interventional Pain Medicine Physician</td><td>Interventional Pain Medicine is the discipline of medicine devoted to the diagnosis and treatment of pain and related disorders principally with the application of interventional techniques in managing subacute, chronic, persistent, and intractable pain, independently or in conjunction with other modalities of treatment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-209800000X">209800000X</a></td><td>Legal Medicine (M.D./D.O.) Physician</td><td>Legal Medicine is a special field of medicine that focuses on various aspects of medicine and law. Historically, the practice of legal medicine made contributions to medicine as a scientific instrument to solve criminal perplexities. Since World War II, the domain of legal medicine has broadened to include not only aspects of medical science to solve legal and criminal problems but aspects of law as it applies to medicine. Legal Medicine continues to grow as medicolegal issues like medical malpractice and liability, government regulation of health care, issues of tort reform, and moral and ethical complexities presented by technological advances become increasingly prominent. Many medical schools have implemented courses which supply medicolegal instruction for medical students, and many law schools now offer medicolegal courses. Also, dual degree programs in law and medicine have been created to assist physicians to bridge the gap between medicine and the law.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-211D00000X">211D00000X</a></td><td>Podiatric Assistant</td><td>An individual who assists a podiatrist in tasks, such as exposing and developing x-rays; taking and recording patient histories; assisting in biomechanical evaluations and negative castings; preparing and sterilizing instruments and equipment; providing the patient with postoperative instructions; applying surgical dressings; preparing the patient for treatment, padding, and strapping; and performing routine office procedures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213E00000X">213E00000X</a></td><td>Podiatrist</td><td>A podiatrist is a person qualified by a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (D.P.M.) degree, licensed by the state, and practicing within the scope of that license. Podiatrists diagnose and treat foot diseases and deformities. They perform medical, surgical and other operative procedures, prescribe corrective devices and prescribe and administer drugs and physical therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213EP0504X">213EP0504X</a></td><td>Public Medicine Podiatrist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213EP1101X">213EP1101X</a></td><td>Primary Podiatric Medicine Podiatrist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213ER0200X">213ER0200X</a></td><td>Radiology Podiatrist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213ES0000X">213ES0000X</a></td><td>Sports Medicine Podiatrist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213ES0103X">213ES0103X</a></td><td>Foot &amp; Ankle Surgery Podiatrist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-213ES0131X">213ES0131X</a></td><td>Foot Surgery Podiatrist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-221700000X">221700000X</a></td><td>Art Therapist</td><td>(1) An individual who uses art to achieve the therapeutic goals of symptom relief, emotional integration, and recovery from or adjustment to illness or disability. (2) An art therapist uses a form of treatment that enables patients with mental or physical disabilities to use art as a way of expressing and dealing with feelings and inner conflicts. (3) An individual who uses arts modalities and creative processes during intentional intervention in therapeutic, rehabilitative, community, or educational settings to foster health, communication, and expression; promote the integration of physical, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning; enhance self-awareness; and facilitate change.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-222Q00000X">222Q00000X</a></td><td>Developmental Therapist</td><td>A Developmental Therapist is a person qualified by completion of an approved program in Developmental Therapy and where applicable credentialed by the state and practicing within the scope of the credential, or credentialed by completion of education experiences as approved by the state and practicing within the scope of that credential or, where state credentialing does not exist, certified by the Board of the Developmental Therapy Association. A developmental therapist evaluates children's global development in order to identify areas of developmental delay whether arising from physiological, neurological, or environmental factors, or a combination of factors; and designs, implements, and modifies therapeutic interventions for the child and the family to promote the child's acquisition of skills in a variety of developmental areas, including cognitive processes and social interaction in order to maximize functional independence and developmental homeostasis, and improve the quality of life at home and in the community; and provides consultation for the parents and other professionals working with the family on global development.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-222Z00000X">222Z00000X</a></td><td>Orthotist</td><td>A health care professional who is specifically educated and trained to manage comprehensive orthotic patient care, including musculoskeletal and neuromuscular anomalies resulting from injuries or disease processes involving the lower extremity, upper extremity or spinal segment/s and positional deformation of the cranium. Orthotists assess specific patient needs, formulate an appropriate treatment plan, implement the treatment plan and provide follow-up care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224900000X">224900000X</a></td><td>Mastectomy Fitter</td><td>An individual trained in the fitting and adjusting of breast prostheses and management of post-mastectomy prostheses services.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224L00000X">224L00000X</a></td><td>Pedorthist</td><td>An individual who is trained in the management and treatment of conditions of the foot, ankle, and lower extremities requiring fitting, fabricating, and adjusting of pedorthic devices.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224P00000X">224P00000X</a></td><td>Prosthetist</td><td>A health care professional who is specifically educated and trained to manage comprehensive prosthetic patient care for individuals who have sustained complete or partial limb loss or absence. Prosthetists assess specific patient needs, formulate an appropriate treatment plan, implement the treatment plan and provide follow-up care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224Y00000X">224Y00000X</a></td><td>Clinical Exercise Physiologist</td><td>A Clinical Exercise Physiologist is a health care professional who is trained to work with patients with chronic disease where exercise training has been shown to be of therapeutic benefit, including but not limited to cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, and metabolic disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224Z00000X">224Z00000X</a></td><td>Occupational Therapy Assistant</td><td>An occupational therapy assistant is a person who has graduated from an occupational therapy assistant program accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) or predecessor organizations, has successfully completed a period of supervised fieldwork experience required by the accredited occupational therapy assistant program, has passed a nationally recognized entry-level examination for occupational therapy assistants, and fulfills state requirements for licensure, certification, or registration. An occupational therapy assistant provides interventions under the supervision of an occupational therapist which emphasize the therapeutic use of everyday life activities (i.e., occupations) with individuals or groups for the purpose of facilitating participation in roles and situations and in home, school, workplace, community and other settings. Occupational therapy services are provided for the purpose of promoting health and wellness and are provided to those who have or are at risk for developing an illness, injury, disease, disorder, condition, impairment, disability, activity limitation, or participation restriction. Occupational therapy assistants address the physical, cognitive, psychosocial, sensory, and other aspects of occupational performance in a variety of contexts to support engagement in everyday life activities that affect health, well-being, and quality of life.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224ZE0001X">224ZE0001X</a></td><td>Environmental Modification Occupational Therapy Assistant</td><td>Occupational therapy assistants provide environmental modifications under the supervision of an occupational therapist.  OTAs develop and implement an individualized occupational therapy environmental modification plan that reflects the relevant contexts of the client and relevant others and maximizes current and future occupational performance, safety, and participation of the client. Clients receive environmental modification recommendations and interventions that enable them to meet occupational performance and participation goals and that have adequate flexibility to accommodate for their future needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224ZF0002X">224ZF0002X</a></td><td>Feeding, Eating &amp; Swallowing Occupational Therapy Assistant</td><td>Occupational therapy assistants provide environmental modifications under the supervision of an occupational therapist.  OTAs develop and implement an individualized occupational therapy environmental modification plan that reflects the relevant contexts of the client and relevant others and maximizes current and future occupational performance, safety, and participation of the client. Clients receive environmental modification recommendations and interventions that enable them to meet occupational performance and participation goals and that have adequate flexibility to accommodate for their future needs.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224ZL0004X">224ZL0004X</a></td><td>Low Vision Occupational Therapy Assistant</td><td>Occupational therapy assistants contribute to the completion of an individualized occupational therapy low-vision evaluation under the direction and supervision of the occupational therapist to identify factors that may facilitate, compensate for, or inhibit use of vision in occupational performance.  Clients are engaged in the identification of strengths, limitations, and goals as they relate to low vision to optimize independence and participation in desired occupations.  Occupational therapy assistants also contribute to the development and implementation of an individualized occupational therapy low-vision intervention plan in collaboration with the occupational therapist, client, and relevant others that reflects the client's priorities for occupational performance.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-224ZR0403X">224ZR0403X</a></td><td>Driving and Community Mobility Occupational Therapy Assistant</td><td>Occupational therapy assistants contribute to the completion of an individualized occupational therapy driving and community mobility evaluation by administering delegated assessments and identifying findings that impact the client's occupational performance. Clients engage in the assessment and occupational profile process to customize the evaluation to their individual driving and community mobility needs.  Occupational therapy assistants administer and continuously modify individualized in-vehicle and community mobility assessments within the naturalistic context of the community in response to the occupational performance and safety behaviors of the client.  They also implement an individualized intervention plan, within the parameters established in collaboration with the occupational therapist that reflects the contexts of the client and meets his or her occupational performance and safety needs.  Occupational therapy assistants address immediate and long-term implications of psychosocial issues related to compromised driving and community mobility throughout the occupational therapy process and makes recommendations to the occupational therapist for modification to service delivery.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225000000X">225000000X</a></td><td>Orthotic Fitter</td><td>An individual trained in the management of fitting prefabricated orthoses.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225100000X">225100000X</a></td><td>Physical Therapist</td><td>Physical therapists (PTs) are licensed health care professionals who diagnose and treat individuals of all ages, from newborns to the very oldest, who have medical problems or other health-related conditions that limit their abilities to move and perform functional activities in their daily lives. PTs examine each individual and develop a plan using treatment techniques to promote the ability to move, reduce pain, restore function, and prevent disability. In addition, PTs work with individuals to prevent the loss of mobility before it occurs by developing fitness- and wellness-oriented programs for healthier and more active lifestyles. PTs: 1.Diagnose and manage movement dysfunction and enhance physical and functional abilities. 2.Restore, maintain, and promote not only optimal physical function but optimal wellness and fitness and optimal quality of life as it relates to movement and health. 3.Prevent the onset, symptoms, and progression of impairments, functional limitations, and disabilities that may result from diseases, disorders, conditions, or injuries. 4.Treat conditions of the musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and/or integumentary systems. 5.Address the negative effects attributable to unique personal and environmental factors as they relate to human performance. 6.PTs provide care for people in a variety of settings, including hospitals, private practices, outpatient clinics, home health agencies, schools, sports and fitness facilities, work settings, and nursing homes. State licensure is required in each state in which a PT practices.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251C2600X">2251C2600X</a></td><td>Cardiopulmonary Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Cardiovascular &amp; Pulmonary Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in cardiovascular and pulmonary anatomy and physiology medicine, rehabilitation, critical care, and emergency and trauma.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251E1200X">2251E1200X</a></td><td>Ergonomics Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skills pertaining to the workplace, occupational demands, prevention of work-related injury, management of the worker with job-related symptoms or participation restrictions, and provides individual, group or population level evaluation, intervention and consulting to enhance worker performance.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251E1300X">2251E1300X</a></td><td>Clinical Electrophysiology Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Clinical Electrophysiologic Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in electrophysiologic examinations and evaluations and encompasses both the professional and technical components of the observation, recording, analysis, and interpretation of bioelectric muscle and nerve potentials, detected by means of surface or needle electrodes, for the purpose of evaluating the integrity of the neuromuscular system. Electrophysiologic evaluations include, but are not limited to, electrodiagnostic testing, which includes clinical needle electromyography, motor and sensory nerve conduction studies, and other evoked potential procedures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251G0304X">2251G0304X</a></td><td>Geriatric Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Geriatric Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in the comprehensive biopsychosocial assessment and evidence-based management of movement in aging adults. This includes, but is not limited to, specialized knowledge in and consideration of normal age-related changes and pathological manifestations across all systems; cognition and mental health; polypharmacy; fall risk mitigation; bone health; healthy and active aging, and socioeconomic and health policy issues affecting aging adults. The geriatric physical therapist is an integral part of the interdisciplinary geriatric team and serves as an advocate for the highest level of well-being for the older adult.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251H1200X">2251H1200X</a></td><td>Hand Physical Therapist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251H1300X">2251H1300X</a></td><td>Human Factors Physical Therapist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251N0400X">2251N0400X</a></td><td>Neurology Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Neurologic Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, including knowledge of central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems in populations with and without neurologic conditions; motor control and movement sciences in populations with and without neurologic conditions; behavioral sciences, including psychology and neuropsychology, and psychiatry; and medical management and pharmacology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251P0200X">2251P0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Pediatric Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in anatomy, histology, including embryonic development, genetics, biomechanics, neurological function, neuroscience, and pathology, behavioral sciences, and understanding of diseases or conditions that necessitate physical therapy care, that affect systems that in turn necessitate physical therapy care (comorbidities), and that influence the type of intervention that can be given.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251S0007X">2251S0007X</a></td><td>Sports Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Sports Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in human anatomy and physiology, movement science, pathology and pathophysiology, medical and surgical intervention, and health and wellness, as well as rehabilitation/return to sports, management of acute injury/illness, medical and surgical consideration, injury prevention, and sports performance enhancement.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2251X0800X">2251X0800X</a></td><td>Orthopedic Physical Therapist</td><td>A licensed physical therapist, including but not limited to an individual who is a Board Certified Specialist in Orthopaedic Physical Therapy, who has demonstrated specialized knowledge and skill in human anatomy and physiology, movement science; pathology/pathophysiology, pain science, medical and surgical considerations, orthopaedic physical therapy theory and practice, and critical inquiry for evidence-based practice.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225200000X">225200000X</a></td><td>Physical Therapy Assistant</td><td>(1)Physical therapist assistants are skilled health care providers who are graduates of a physical therapist assistant associate degree program accredited by an agency recognized by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education or Council on Postsecondary Accreditation, who assists the physical therapist in providing physical therapy. The supervising physical therapist is directly responsible for the actions of the physical therapist assistant. The PTA performs physical therapy procedures and related tasks that have been selected and delegated by the supervising physical therapist. Duties of the PTA include assisting the physical therapist in implementing treatment programs, training patients in exercised and activities of daily living, conducting treatments, and reporting to the physical therapist on the patient's responses. In addition to direct patient care, the PTA may also perform such functions as patient transport, and clinic or equipment preparation and maintenance. Currently more than half of all states require PTAs to be licensed, registered or certified. (2) An individual who works under the supervision of a physical therapist to assist him or her in providing physical therapy services. A physical therapy assistant may, for instance, help patients follow an appropriate exercise program that will increase their strength, endurance, coordination, and range of motion and train patients to perform activities of daily life.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225400000X">225400000X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Practitioner</td><td>A health care practitioner who trains or retrains individuals disabled by disease or injury to help them attain their maximum functional capacity.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225500000X">225500000X</a></td><td>Respiratory/Developmental/Rehabilitative Specialist/Technologist</td><td>General classification identifying individuals who are trained on a specific piece of equipment or technical procedure.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2255A2300X">2255A2300X</a></td><td>Athletic Trainer</td><td>Athletic trainers are allied health care professionals who work in consultation with or under the direction of physicians, and specialize in the prevention, assessment, treatment and rehabilitation of injuries and illnesses.  Currently, the entry-level employment requirements are a bachelor's degree with a major in athletic training from an accredited university or college. A majority of athletic trainers hold advanced degrees.  National board certification is generally required as a condition of state licensure and employment. Most states regulate athletic trainers, and they practice within the scope of that license or regulation.  Clinical practice includes emergency care, rehabilitation, reconditioning, therapeutic exercise, wellness programs, exercise physiology, kinesiology, biomechanics, nutrition, psychology and health care administration.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2255R0406X">2255R0406X</a></td><td>Blind Rehabilitation Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225600000X">225600000X</a></td><td>Dance Therapist</td><td>The dance therapist, sometimes called a movement therapist, focuses on rhythmic body movements as a medium of physical and psychological change. Dance therapy is practiced more often with mental health patients than with physically disabled patients. A master's degree is required by the American Dance Therapy Association to award the credentials Dance Therapist Registered (DTR).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225700000X">225700000X</a></td><td>Massage Therapist</td><td>An individual trained in the manipulation of tissues (as by rubbing, stroking, kneading, or tapping) with the hand or an instrument for remedial or hygienic purposes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225800000X">225800000X</a></td><td>Recreation Therapist</td><td>A recreation therapist uses recreational activities for intervention in some physical, social or emotional behavior to bring about a desired change in that behavior and promote the growth and development of the patient.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225A00000X">225A00000X</a></td><td>Music Therapist</td><td>Music therapists use music interventions to assess clients' strengths and needs, develop goals, implement services, and evaluate and document progress for individuals of all ages.  Music therapists facilitate changes in physical, cognitive, emotional, and/or psychosocial health.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225B00000X">225B00000X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Function Technologist</td><td>An individual who is trained and qualified to perform pulmonary diagnostic tests.  In the course of conducting these tests, the Pulmonary Function Technologist is able to setup, calibrate, maintain, and ensure the quality assurance of the pulmonary function testing equipment.  In the laboratory, clinical or patient care setting the technologist instructs patients, elicits cooperation, performs procedures, monitors patient response, and evaluates patient performance.  Tests results are calculated, compared with predicted normal ranges, and evaluated for reliability.  The technologist collects clinical history data and evaluates the clinical implications of the test results.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225C00000X">225C00000X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Counselor</td><td>An individual trained and educated in a systematic process of assisting persons with physical, mental, developmental, cognitive, and emotional disabilities to achieve their personal, career, and independent living goals assessment and appraisal, diagnosis and treatment planning, career (vocational) counseling, individual and group counseling interventions for adjustments to the medical and psychosocial impact of disability, case management, program evaluation and research, job analysis and placement counseling, and consultation on rehabilitation resources and technology. Certification generally requires a Master's degree with specialized courses in rehabilitation processes and technology.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225CA2400X">225CA2400X</a></td><td>Assistive Technology Practitioner Rehabilitation Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225CA2500X">225CA2500X</a></td><td>Assistive Technology Supplier Rehabilitation Counselor</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225CX0006X">225CX0006X</a></td><td>Orientation and Mobility Training Rehabilitation Counselor</td><td>Orientation and Mobility (O&amp;M) specialists teach children and adults who have visual impairments the specific orientation skills used to find one's way in the environment and the mobility skills needed to travel safely and efficiently at home, school, work, and in the community. Instruction is usually provided one-on-one and can include skills such as how to use a long cane, the operation of low vision devices and electronic travel aids when appropriate, how to orient oneself to new environments, navigate public transportation systems, how to cross streets safely, and traveling by using hearing, remaining vision, and other senses.  In addition, O&amp;M Specialists help children to develop fundamental skills such as fine and gross motor skills, concept development and problem solving skills. Adult clients can also benefit from an O&amp;M specialist evaluating their current use of travel-related skills, discussing their future goals, and helping them select a program of instruction that will allow them to reach their greatest travel potential.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225X00000X">225X00000X</a></td><td>Occupational Therapist</td><td>An occupational therapist is a person who has graduated from an entry-level occupational therapy program accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) or predecessor organizations, or approved by the World Federation of Occupational Therapists (WFOT), or an equivalent international occupational therapy education program; has successfully completed a period of supervised fieldwork experience required by the occupational therapy program; has passed a nationally recognized entry-level examination for occupational therapists, and fulfills state requirements for licensure, certification, or registration. An occupational therapist provides interventions based on evaluation and which emphasize the therapeutic use of everyday life activities (i.e., occupations) with individuals or groups for the purpose of facilitating participation in roles and situations and in home, school, workplace, community and other settings. Occupational therapy services are provided for the purpose of promoting health and wellness and are provided to those who have or are at risk for developing an illness, injury, disease, disorder, condition, impairment, disability, activity limitation, or participation restriction. Occupational therapists address the physical, cognitive, psychosocial, sensory, and other aspects of occupational performance in a variety of contexts to support engagement in everyday life activities that affect health, well-being, and quality of life.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XE0001X">225XE0001X</a></td><td>Environmental Modification Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapy practitioners are experts at identifying the cause of difficulties in performance of activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living.  Occupational therapy practitioners evaluate the client, their environment, and their occupational performance in that environment, as well as make recommendations for products to improve the fit between the client, place, and activity.  Occupational therapists can evaluate both the skills of the client and the environmental features that support or limit the performance of meaningful or necessary activities, thereby enhancing health, safety and well-being.  Based on this assessment, they recommend modification and intervention strategies that improve the fit between the person and his or her environment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XE1200X">225XE1200X</a></td><td>Ergonomics Occupational Therapist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XF0002X">225XF0002X</a></td><td>Feeding, Eating &amp; Swallowing Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists provide interventions to clients of all ages with feeding, eating and swallowing difficulties.  Occupational therapists provide comprehensive rehabilitative, habilitative, and palliative dysphagia care, which includes collaborating with clients to provide individualized compensatory swallowing strategies, modified diet textures, adapted mealtime environments, enhanced feeding skills, preparatory exercises and positioning to clients, reinforcement of mealtime strategies to enhance and improve swallowing skills, and training to caregivers to enhance eating and feeding performance.  Occupational therapists provide screening and in-depth clinical assessment which may include instrumental dysphagia assessments including videofluroscopy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XG0600X">225XG0600X</a></td><td>Gerontology Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists work with older adults in virtually every setting: assisted living, wellness programs, hospitals, nursing homes, senior centers, clinics and in the home. Occupational therapists bring an understanding of the importance of participation and occupation for overall well-being to those who are experiencing disabling conditions related to aging. The primary overarching goal of occupational therapy services with this population is to maximize independence and participation, thereby enabling an older person to continue to live successfully in his or her chosen environment. Occupational therapists can help older adults by developing strategies to help or maintain safety and well-being, to assist with life transitions, and to compensate for challenges they experience in activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living, leisure participation, social participation, and productive activities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XH1200X">225XH1200X</a></td><td>Hand Occupational Therapist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XH1300X">225XH1300X</a></td><td>Human Factors Occupational Therapist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XL0004X">225XL0004X</a></td><td>Low Vision Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists enable children and adults with visual impairment to engage in their chosen daily living activities safely and as independently as possible.  This is accomplished by 1) teaching the person to use their remaining vision as efficiently as possible to complete activities; (2) modifying activities so that they can be completed with less vision; (3) training the person in use of adaptive equipment to compensate for vision loss, including high and low technology assistive devices; and (4) modifying the person's environment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XM0800X">225XM0800X</a></td><td>Mental Health Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists provide treatment for people recovering from a mental or physical illness to regain their independence and stability and to engage in normal daily occupations (work, home, family life, school, leisure).  Occupational therapists provide particular emphasis on interventions that result in improved quality of life and decrease hospitalization.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XN1300X">225XN1300X</a></td><td>Neurorehabilitation Occupational Therapist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XP0019X">225XP0019X</a></td><td>Physical Rehabilitation Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists are experts at helping people lead as independent a life as possible.  Occupational therapists bring an understanding of the physical and psychological implications of illness and injury and their effects on peoples' ability to perform the tasks of daily living.  Occupational therapists provide interventions that can aide a person in completing ADL and IADL tasks, such as dressing, bathing, preparing meals, and driving.  They also may fabricate custom orthotics to improve function, evaluate the environment for safety hazards and recommend adaptations to remove those hazards, help a person compensate for cognitive changes, and build a persons' physical endurance and strength. Occupational therapists' knowledge of adapting tasks and modifying the environment to compensate for functional limitations is used to increase the involvement of clients and to promote safety and success.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XP0200X">225XP0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists provide services to infants, toddlers and children who have or who are at risk for developmental delays or disabilities. Occupational therapy is concerned with a child's ability to participate in daily life activities or "occupations."  Occupational therapists use their unique expertise to help children with social-emotional, physical, cognitive, communication, and adaptive behavioral challenges and to help children to be prepared for and perform important learning and school-related activities and to fulfill their rule as students.  Through an understanding of the impact of disability, illness, and impairment on a child's development, plan, ability to learn new skills, and overall occupational performance, occupational therapists design interventions that promote healthy development, establish needed skills, and/or modify environments, all in support of participation in daily activities.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-225XR0403X">225XR0403X</a></td><td>Driving and Community Mobility Occupational Therapist</td><td>Occupational therapists can optimize and prolong an older driver's ability to drive safely and ease the transition to other forms of transportation if driving cessation becomes necessary.  By identifying strengths as well as physical or cognitive challenges, occupational therapists can evaluate an individual's overall ability to operate a vehicle safely and recommend assistive devices or behavioral changes to limit risks.  Occupational therapy practitioners offer a continuum of services related to community mobility, from evaluation of driving performance, through counseling and support for lifestyle changes, to maintaining independence and quality of life.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-226000000X">226000000X</a></td><td>Recreational Therapist Assistant</td><td>Recreational Therapist Assistants work in support of or assistant to Recreational Therapists treating patients with disabilities, injuries, and illnesses.  Recreational Therapist Assistants work in a variety of settings providing treatments using recreational activities, including games, sports, and crafts.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-226300000X">226300000X</a></td><td>Kinesiotherapist</td><td>A provider trained and educated in the applied science of medically prescribed therapeutic exercise, education and adapted physical activities designed to improve the quality of line and health of adults and children by developing physical fitness, increasing mobility and independence, and improving psychosocial behavior. The kinesiotherapist seeks a coach-player relationship in which he/she helps the patient/client reach the goal of becoming an independent, self-sustaining person. Kinesiotherapists, as compared with physical therapists, put more emphasis on geriatric care, reconditioning and fitness, and psychiatric care. A large percentage of kinesiotherapists practice in Veterans Administration hospitals.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-227800000X">227800000X</a></td><td>Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>A Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) is a an entry level therapist who has passed a standardized written examination administered by the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).  CRTs provide diagnostic testing, therapeutics, monitoring, rehabilitation, and education to patients with disorders of the cardiopulmonary system.  They provide these respiratory care services in all health care facilities and in the home.  A CRT is a graduate of an associate degree program approved by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Educational Programs (CAAHEP) and where applicable, is licensed by the state and is practicing within the scope of the license.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278C0205X">2278C0205X</a></td><td>Critical Care Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Respiratory emergencies are commonplace in the treatment of critical care patients.  Included in the assessment measurements conducted by the respiratory therapist in the critical care settings are arterial blood gas puncture and analysis, intrarterial monitoring, bedside measurements of lung mechanics, hemodynamic monitoring, and inspired and expired gas measurements.  This is coupled with the initiation and management of mechanical ventilation patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278E0002X">2278E0002X</a></td><td>Emergency Care Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The immediate availability of diagnostic and therapeutic cardiopulmonary services in the assessment and management of trauma victims, patients requiring airway management and others requiring emergency care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278E1000X">2278E1000X</a></td><td>Educational Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The focus of patient and family education activities is to promote knowledge of disease process, medical therapy, and self help.  Respiratory therapists are uniquely qualified to provide this service in regard to cardiopulmonary diseases and injury.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278G0305X">2278G0305X</a></td><td>Geriatric Care Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Care of older patients who have age and/or disease related decremental pulmonary changes.  Diagnosis and treatment is very important for this group since chronic lung disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality among them.  Furthermore, as this segment of the population increases, life expectancy is being extended.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278G1100X">2278G1100X</a></td><td>General Care Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>This level of care includes diagnostics testing, therapeutics, monitoring, rehabilitation of patients with disorders of the cardiopulmonary system, as well as, education of the patient and family in regard to those disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278H0200X">2278H0200X</a></td><td>Home Health Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Home care fosters individual responsibility for self-management of chronic respiratory conditions.  It includes individualized assessment based plans of care service developed to promote safe, proper, and sustained use of prescribed respiratory therapy medications, equipment, and techniques in the home.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278P1004X">2278P1004X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Diagnostics Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Included in the area of pulmonary diagnostics are the following; collection and analysis of physiological specimens, interpretation of physiological data, administration of tests of the cardiopulmonary system, and the conduct of both neurophysiological and sleep disorders studies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278P1005X">2278P1005X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Rehabilitation Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The respiratory therapist can assist the chronic pulmonary patient in returning to an optimal role in society by providing an effective program.  It includes bronchopulmonary drainage, exercise therapy, and patient education.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278P1006X">2278P1006X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Function Technologist Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>An individual who is trained and qualified to perform pulmonary diagnostic tests.  In the course of conducting these tests, the Pulmonary Function Technologist is able to setup, calibrate, maintain, and ensure the quality assurance of the pulmonary function testing equipment.  In the laboratory, clinical or patient care setting the technologist instructs patients, elicits cooperation, performs procedures, monitors patient response, and evaluates patient performance.  Tests results are calculated, compared with predicted normal ranges, and evaluated for reliability.  The technologist collects clinical history data and evaluates the clinical implications of the test results.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278P3800X">2278P3800X</a></td><td>Palliative/Hospice Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>A coordinated plan of care to help dying patients and their families handle the burden of terminal care.  Effective secretion management and relief of dyspnea are paramount in caring for patients with end-stage pulmonary disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278P3900X">2278P3900X</a></td><td>Neonatal/Pediatric Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The care and treatment of premature infants, newborns and children.  This includes management of mechanical ventilation, assessment, diagnostics and generalized respiratory treatments.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278P4000X">2278P4000X</a></td><td>Patient Transport Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Transport respiratory therapist provide patient assessment, initiation of treatment modalities and continued monitoring of patient status of the critically ill and injured patients with special attention to advanced airway and ventilator management.  The transport respiratory therapist knowledge and experience with complex neonatal, pediatric and adult patient care issues provides them with an expertise to assist with any patient care issue in a variety of transport modes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2278S1500X">2278S1500X</a></td><td>SNF/Subacute Care Certified Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Care of residents in a long-term care environment.  Respiratory modalities delivered include those similar in the general care and critical care areas but provided to less critical patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-227900000X">227900000X</a></td><td>Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>A Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) is an advanced therapist who has passed standardized written and clinical simulation examinations administered by the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).  In addition, to the certified therapist (CRT) entry level skills, RRTs have advanced education and training in patient assessment, in the development and modification of patient care plans, and in assuring the appropriate utilization of respiratory care resources.  An RRT is a graduate of an associate or baccalaureate degree producing educational programs approved by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) and where applicable, is licensed by the state and is practicing within the scope of that license.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279C0205X">2279C0205X</a></td><td>Critical Care Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Respiratory emergencies are commonplace in the treatment of critical care patients.  Included in the assessment measurements conducted by the respiratory therapist in the critical care settings are arterial blood gas puncture and analysis, intrarterial monitoring, bedside measurements of lung mechanics, hemodynamic monitoring, and inspired and expired gas measurements.  This is coupled with the initiation and management of mechanical ventilation patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279E0002X">2279E0002X</a></td><td>Emergency Care Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The immediate availability of diagnostic and therapeutic cardiopulmonary services in the assessment and management of trauma victims, patients requiring airway management and others requiring emergency care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279E1000X">2279E1000X</a></td><td>Educational Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The focus of patient and family education activities is to promote knowledge of disease process, medical therapy, and self help.  Respiratory therapists are uniquely qualified to provide this service in regard to cardiopulmonary diseases and injury.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279G0305X">2279G0305X</a></td><td>Geriatric Care Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Care of older patients who have age and/or disease related decremental pulmonary changes.  Diagnosis and treatment is very important for this group since chronic lung disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality among them.  Furthermore, as this segment of the population increases, life expectancy is being extended.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279G1100X">2279G1100X</a></td><td>General Care Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>This level of care includes diagnostics testing, therapeutics, monitoring, rehabilitation of patients with disorders of the cardiopulmonary system, as well as, education of the patient and family in regard to those disorders.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279H0200X">2279H0200X</a></td><td>Home Health Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Home care fosters individual responsibility for self-management of chronic respiratory conditions.  It includes individualized assessment based plans of care service developed to promote safe, proper, and sustained use of prescribed respiratory therapy medications, equipment, and techniques in the home.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279P1004X">2279P1004X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Diagnostics Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Included in the area of pulmonary diagnostics are the following; collection and analysis of physiological specimens, interpretation of physiological data, administration of tests of the cardiopulmonary system, and the conduct of both neurophysiological and sleep disorders studies.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279P1005X">2279P1005X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Rehabilitation Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The respiratory therapist can assist the chronic pulmonary patient in returning to an optimal role in society by providing an effective program.  It includes bronchopulmonary drainage, exercise therapy, and patient education.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279P1006X">2279P1006X</a></td><td>Pulmonary Function Technologist Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>An individual who is trained and qualified to perform pulmonary diagnostic tests.  In the course of conducting these tests, the Pulmonary Function Technologist is able to setup, calibrate, maintain, and ensure the quality assurance of the pulmonary function testing equipment.  In the laboratory, clinical or patient care setting the technologist instructs patients, elicits cooperation, performs procedures, monitors patient response, and evaluates patient performance.  Tests results are calculated, compared with predicted normal ranges, and evaluated for reliability.  The technologist collects clinical history data and evaluates the clinical implications of the test results.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279P3800X">2279P3800X</a></td><td>Palliative/Hospice Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>A coordinated plan of care to help dying patients and their families handle the burden of terminal care.  Effective secretion management and relief of dyspnea are paramount in caring for patients with end-stage pulmonary disease.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279P3900X">2279P3900X</a></td><td>Neonatal/Pediatric Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>The care and treatment of premature infants, newborns and children.  This includes management of mechanical ventilation, assessment, diagnostics and generalized respiratory treatments.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279P4000X">2279P4000X</a></td><td>Patient Transport Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Transport respiratory therapist provide patient assessment, initiation of treatment modalities and continued monitoring of patient status of the critically ill and injured patients with special attention to advanced airway and ventilator management.  The transport respiratory therapist knowledge and experience with complex neonatal, pediatric and adult patient care issues provides them with an expertise to assist with any patient care issue in a variety of transport modes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2279S1500X">2279S1500X</a></td><td>SNF/Subacute Care Registered Respiratory Therapist</td><td>Care of residents in a long-term care environment.  Respiratory modalities delivered include those similar in the general care and critical care areas but provided to less critical patients.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-229N00000X">229N00000X</a></td><td>Anaplastologist</td><td>An anaplastologist is a professional who creates prostheses for the face and body.  Patients treated include those missing anatomy due to cancer, traumatic injury, or birth differences.  Generally, there are no state licensing requirements for anaplastologists.  Certification specific to anaplastology is provided through the Board for Certified Clinical Anaplastology (BCCA) with a credential title of Certified Clinical Anaplastologist (CCA).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-231H00000X">231H00000X</a></td><td>Audiologist</td><td>(1) A specialist in evaluation, habilitation and rehabilitation of those whose communication disorders center in whole or in part in hearing function. Audiologists are autonomous professionals who identify, assess, and manage disorders of the auditory, balance and other neural systems. Audiologists provide audiological (aural) rehabilitation to children and adults across the entire age span. Audiologists select, fit and dispense amplification systems such as hearing aids and related devices. (2) An audiologist is a person qualified by a master's degree in audiology, licensed by the state, where applicable, and practicing within the scope of that license. Audiologists evaluate and treat patients with impaired hearing. They plan, direct and conduct rehabilitative programs with audiotry substitutional devises (hearing aids) and other therapy.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-231HA2400X">231HA2400X</a></td><td>Assistive Technology Practitioner Audiologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-231HA2500X">231HA2500X</a></td><td>Assistive Technology Supplier Audiologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-235500000X">235500000X</a></td><td>Speech/Language/Hearing Specialist/Technologist</td><td>General classification identifying individuals who are trained on a specific piece of equipment or technical procedure.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2355A2700X">2355A2700X</a></td><td>Audiology Assistant</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2355S0801X">2355S0801X</a></td><td>Speech-Language Assistant</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-235Z00000X">235Z00000X</a></td><td>Speech-Language Pathologist</td><td>The speech-language pathologist is the professional who engages in clinical services, prevention, advocacy, education, administration, and research in the areas of communication and swallowing across the life span from infancy through geriatrics. Speech-language pathologists address typical and atypical impairments and disorders related to communication and swallowing in the areas of speech sound production, resonance, voice, fluency, language (comprehension and expression), cognition, and feeding and swallowing.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-237600000X">237600000X</a></td><td>Audiologist-Hearing Aid Fitter</td><td>An audiologist/hearing aid fitter is the professional who specializes in evaluating and treating people with hearing loss, conducts a wide variety of tests to determine the exact nature of an individual's hearing problem, presents a variety of treatment options to patients, dispenses and fits hearing aids, administers tests of balance to evaluate dizziness and provides hearing rehabilitation training. This classification should be used where individuals are licensed as "audiologist-hearing aid fitters" as opposed to states that license individuals as "audiologists".</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-237700000X">237700000X</a></td><td>Hearing Instrument Specialist</td><td>Individuals who test hearing for the selection, adaptation, fitting, adjusting, servicing, and sale of hearing aids. Hearing Instrument Specialist is a designation provided individuals who qualify by the National Hearing Aid Society</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-242T00000X">242T00000X</a></td><td>Perfusionist</td><td>A perfusionist operates extracorporeal circulation and autotransfusion equipment during any medical situation where it is necessary to support or temporarily replace the patient's circulatory or respiratory function. The perfusionist is knowledgeable concerning the variety of equipment available to perform extracorporeal circulation functions and is responsible, in consultation with the physician, for selecting the appropriate equipment and techniques to be used.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-243U00000X">243U00000X</a></td><td>Radiology Practitioner Assistant</td><td>A Radiology Practitioner Assistant (RPA) is a health professional certified as a registered radiographer with the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) and, in addition, is credentialed to provide primary radiology health care with radiologist supervision. Radiology Practitioner Assistants are qualified by graduation from an educational program recognized by the Board of Directors of athe Certification Board for Radiology Practitioner Assistants (CBRPA) and certified by the CBRPA. Within the Radiologist/RPA relationship, Radiology Practitioner Assistants exercise autonomy in decision making in the role of a primary caregiver with regard to patient assessment, patient management and in providing a broad range of radiology diagnostic and interventional services. The clinical role of the Radiology Practitioner Assistant includes primary and specialty care in radiology practice settings in rural and urban areas.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246Q00000X">246Q00000X</a></td><td>Pathology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>(1) An individual educated and trained in clinical chemistry, microbiology or other biological sciences; and in gathering data on the blood, tissues, and fluids in the human body. Tests and procedures performed or supervised center on major areas of hematology, microbiology, immunohematology, immunology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis. Education and certification requires the equivalent of an associate degree and alternative combinations of accredited training and experience. (2) A specially trained individual who works under the direction of a pathologist, other physician, or scientist, and performs specialized chemical, microscopic, and bacteriological tests of human blood, tissue, and fluids. Also known as medical technologists, they perform and supervise tests and procedures in clinical chemistry, immunology, serology, bacteriology, hematology, parasitology, mycology, urinalysis, and blood banking. The work requires the correlation of test results with other data, interpretation of test findings, and exercise of independent judgment. The minimum educational requirement (for one of several certification programs in medical technology) is a baccalaureate degree with appropriate science course requirements, plus a twelve-month, structured, AMA approved medical technology program and an examination; or a baccalaureate degree with appropriate science course requirements and experience.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QB0000X">246QB0000X</a></td><td>Blood Banking Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QC1000X">246QC1000X</a></td><td>Chemistry Pathology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QC2700X">246QC2700X</a></td><td>Cytotechnology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QH0000X">246QH0000X</a></td><td>Hematology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QH0401X">246QH0401X</a></td><td>Hemapheresis Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QH0600X">246QH0600X</a></td><td>Histology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QI0000X">246QI0000X</a></td><td>Immunology Pathology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QL0900X">246QL0900X</a></td><td>Laboratory Management Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QL0901X">246QL0901X</a></td><td>Diplomate Laboratory Management Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QM0706X">246QM0706X</a></td><td>Medical Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246QM0900X">246QM0900X</a></td><td>Microbiology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246R00000X">246R00000X</a></td><td>Pathology Technician</td><td>An individual with knowledge of specific techniques and instruments who performs all of the routine tests in a medical laboratory and who has the ability to discriminate between similar factors that directly affect procedures and results.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246RH0600X">246RH0600X</a></td><td>Histology Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246RM2200X">246RM2200X</a></td><td>Medical Laboratory Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246RP1900X">246RP1900X</a></td><td>Phlebotomy Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246W00000X">246W00000X</a></td><td>Cardiology Technician</td><td>An individual who has knowledge of specific techniques, instruments, and equipment required in performing specific cardiovascular/peripheral vascular diagnostic procedures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246X00000X">246X00000X</a></td><td>Cardiovascular Specialist/Technologist</td><td>An allied health professional who performs diagnostic examinations at the request or direction of a physician in one or more of the following three areas: invasive cardiology, noninvasive cardiology, and noninvasive peripheral vascular study. Cardiovascular technologists are one type of allied health professional for which the Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation has accredited education programs</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246XC2901X">246XC2901X</a></td><td>Cardiovascular Invasive Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246XC2903X">246XC2903X</a></td><td>Vascular Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246XS1301X">246XS1301X</a></td><td>Sonography Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246Y00000X">246Y00000X</a></td><td>Health Information Specialist/Technologist</td><td>An individual with a high school diploma, on-the-job experience and coding education from seminars or college classes who passes a national certification examination in either inpatient and outpatient facility services coding, or physician services coding.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246YC3301X">246YC3301X</a></td><td>Hospital Based Coding Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246YC3302X">246YC3302X</a></td><td>Physician Office Based Coding Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246YR1600X">246YR1600X</a></td><td>Registered Record Administrator</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246Z00000X">246Z00000X</a></td><td>Other Specialist/Technologist</td><td>General classification identifying individuals trained on specific equipment and technical procedures in one of a collection of miscellaneous healthcare disciplines.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZA2600X">246ZA2600X</a></td><td>Medical Art Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZB0301X">246ZB0301X</a></td><td>Biomedical Engineer</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZB0302X">246ZB0302X</a></td><td>Biomedical Photographer</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZB0500X">246ZB0500X</a></td><td>Biochemist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZB0600X">246ZB0600X</a></td><td>Biostatiscian</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZC0007X">246ZC0007X</a></td><td>Surgical Assistant</td><td>A surgical assistant is a skilled practitioner who has undergone formalized education and training as a surgical assistant. The surgical assistant performs surgical functions that include, but are not limited to: retracting, manipulating, suturing, clamping, cauterizing, litigating, and tying tissue; suctioning, irrigating and sponging; positioning the patient; closure of body planes and skin; and participating in hemostasis and volume replacement. Surgical assistants are certified and registered or licensed by the state, or, in states without licensure, certified as surgical assistants by completing appropriate education and training.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZE0500X">246ZE0500X</a></td><td>EEG Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZE0600X">246ZE0600X</a></td><td>Electroneurodiagnostic Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZG0701X">246ZG0701X</a></td><td>Graphics Methods Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZG1000X">246ZG1000X</a></td><td>Medical Geneticist (PhD) Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZI1000X">246ZI1000X</a></td><td>Medical Illustrator</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZN0300X">246ZN0300X</a></td><td>Nephrology Specialist/Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZS0410X">246ZS0410X</a></td><td>Surgical Technologist</td><td>Surgical technologists are allied health professionals, who are an integral part of the team of medical practitioners providing surgical care to patients. Surgical technologists work under the supervision of a surgeon to facilitate the safe and effective conduct of invasive surgical procedures, ensuring that the operating room environment is safe, that equipment functions properly, and that the operative procedure is conducted under conditions that maximize patient safety. Surgical technologists possess expertise in the theory and application of sterile and aseptic technique and combine the knowledge of human anatomy, surgical procedures, and implementation tools and technologies to facilitate a physician's performance of invasive therapeutic and diagnostic procedures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-246ZX2200X">246ZX2200X</a></td><td>Orthopedic Assistant</td><td>An Orthopaedic Assistant is a person who has been trained to work as a physician extender in both clinical and surgical environments. An Orthopaedic Assistant assists with aspects of patient care as determined by the supervising surgeon including, but not limited to, obtaining patient history, assisting with examinations, injections, recording of office notes, and application/adjustment/removal of splints, casts, and other immobilization devices.  Acting as a surgical first assistant for orthopaedic surgery cases includes providing aid in exposure, hemostasis, positioning of the patient, suturing and closure of body planes and skin, application of wound dressings or immobilization devices, and other technical functions that will help the surgeon carry out a safe operation with optimal results for the patient.  An Orthopaedic Assistant may be licensed, registered, or certified depending on the state in which the individual practices.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-247000000X">247000000X</a></td><td>Health Information Technician</td><td>Preferred term for an Accredited Record Technician who is an individual with an associate's degree from an accredited college or independent study program who is skilled in analyzing health information and in examination of medical records for accuracy, reporting of patient data for reimbursement, and creation of disease registries for researchers.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2470A2800X">2470A2800X</a></td><td>Assistant Health Information Record Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-247100000X">247100000X</a></td><td>Radiologic Technologist</td><td>An individual who is trained and qualified in the art and science of both ionizing and non-ionizing radiation for the purposes of diagnostic medical imaging, interventional procedures and therapeutic treatment.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471B0102X">2471B0102X</a></td><td>Bone Densitometry Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471C1101X">2471C1101X</a></td><td>Cardiovascular-Interventional Technology Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471C1106X">2471C1106X</a></td><td>Cardiac-Interventional Technology Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471C3401X">2471C3401X</a></td><td>Computed Tomography Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471C3402X">2471C3402X</a></td><td>Radiography Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471M1202X">2471M1202X</a></td><td>Magnetic Resonance Imaging Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471M2300X">2471M2300X</a></td><td>Mammography Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471N0900X">2471N0900X</a></td><td>Nuclear Medicine Technology Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471Q0001X">2471Q0001X</a></td><td>Quality Management Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471R0002X">2471R0002X</a></td><td>Radiation Therapy Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471S1302X">2471S1302X</a></td><td>Sonography Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471V0105X">2471V0105X</a></td><td>Vascular Sonography Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2471V0106X">2471V0106X</a></td><td>Vascular-Interventional Technology Radiologic Technologist</td><td>Definition to come.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-247200000X">247200000X</a></td><td>Other Technician</td><td>A collective term for persons with specialized training in various narrow fields of expertise whose occupations require training and skills in specific technical processes and procedures; and where further classification is deemed unnecessary by the user.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2472B0301X">2472B0301X</a></td><td>Biomedical Engineering Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2472D0500X">2472D0500X</a></td><td>Darkroom Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2472E0500X">2472E0500X</a></td><td>EEG Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2472R0900X">2472R0900X</a></td><td>Renal Dialysis Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-2472V0600X">2472V0600X</a></td><td>Veterinary Technician</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-247ZC0005X">247ZC0005X</a></td><td>Clinical Laboratory Director (Non-physician)</td><td>An individual who is state-licensed as a clinical laboratory director and meets the qualifications in the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 for non-physicians (non-MD/DO) as defined in the CFR 42 Part 493.1405.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363A00000X">363A00000X</a></td><td>Physician Assistant</td><td>A physician assistant is a person who has successfully completed an accredited education program for physician assistant, is licensed by the state and is practicing within the scope of that license. Physician assistants are formally trained to perform many of the routine, time-consuming tasks a physician can do. In some states, they may prescribe medications. They take medical histories, perform physical exams, order lab tests and x-rays, and give inoculations. Most states require that they work under the supervision of a physician.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363AM0700X">363AM0700X</a></td><td>Medical Physician Assistant</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363AS0400X">363AS0400X</a></td><td>Surgical Physician Assistant</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363L00000X">363L00000X</a></td><td>Nurse Practitioner</td><td>(1) A registered nurse provider with a graduate degree in nursing prepared for advanced practice involving independent and interdependent decision making and direct accountability for clinical judgment across the health care continuum or in a certified specialty. (2) A registered nurse who has completed additional training beyond basic nursing education and who provides primary health care services in accordance with state nurse practice laws or statutes. Tasks performed by nurse practitioners vary with practice requirements mandated by geographic, political, economic, and social factors. Nurse practitioner specialists include, but are not limited to, family nurse practitioners, gerontological nurse practitioners, pediatric nurse practitioners, obstetric-gynecologic nurse practitioners, and school nurse practitioners.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LA2100X">363LA2100X</a></td><td>Acute Care Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LA2200X">363LA2200X</a></td><td>Adult Health Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LC0200X">363LC0200X</a></td><td>Critical Care Medicine Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LC1500X">363LC1500X</a></td><td>Community Health Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LF0000X">363LF0000X</a></td><td>Family Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LG0600X">363LG0600X</a></td><td>Gerontology Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LN0000X">363LN0000X</a></td><td>Neonatal Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LN0005X">363LN0005X</a></td><td>Critical Care Neonatal Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LP0200X">363LP0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LP0222X">363LP0222X</a></td><td>Critical Care Pediatric Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LP0808X">363LP0808X</a></td><td>Psychiatric/Mental Health Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LP1700X">363LP1700X</a></td><td>Perinatal Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LP2300X">363LP2300X</a></td><td>Primary Care Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LS0200X">363LS0200X</a></td><td>School Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LW0102X">363LW0102X</a></td><td>Women's Health Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LX0001X">363LX0001X</a></td><td>Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-363LX0106X">363LX0106X</a></td><td>Occupational Health Nurse Practitioner</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364S00000X">364S00000X</a></td><td>Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>A registered nurse who, through a graduate degree program in nursing, or through a formal post-basic education program or continuing education courses and clinical experience, is expert in a specialty area of nursing practice within one or more of the components of direct patient/client care, consultation, education, research and administration.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SA2100X">364SA2100X</a></td><td>Acute Care Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SA2200X">364SA2200X</a></td><td>Adult Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SC0200X">364SC0200X</a></td><td>Critical Care Medicine Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SC1501X">364SC1501X</a></td><td>Community Health/Public Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SC2300X">364SC2300X</a></td><td>Chronic Care Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SE0003X">364SE0003X</a></td><td>Emergency Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SE1400X">364SE1400X</a></td><td>Ethics Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SF0001X">364SF0001X</a></td><td>Family Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SG0600X">364SG0600X</a></td><td>Gerontology Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SH0200X">364SH0200X</a></td><td>Home Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SH1100X">364SH1100X</a></td><td>Holistic Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SI0800X">364SI0800X</a></td><td>Informatics Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SL0600X">364SL0600X</a></td><td>Long-Term Care Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SM0705X">364SM0705X</a></td><td>Medical-Surgical Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SN0000X">364SN0000X</a></td><td>Neonatal Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SN0800X">364SN0800X</a></td><td>Neuroscience Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0200X">364SP0200X</a></td><td>Pediatric Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0807X">364SP0807X</a></td><td>Child &amp; Adolescent Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0808X">364SP0808X</a></td><td>Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0809X">364SP0809X</a></td><td>Adult Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0810X">364SP0810X</a></td><td>Child &amp; Family Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0811X">364SP0811X</a></td><td>Chronically Ill Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0812X">364SP0812X</a></td><td>Community Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP0813X">364SP0813X</a></td><td>Geropsychiatric Psychiatric/Mental Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP1700X">364SP1700X</a></td><td>Perinatal Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SP2800X">364SP2800X</a></td><td>Perioperative Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SR0400X">364SR0400X</a></td><td>Rehabilitation Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SS0200X">364SS0200X</a></td><td>School Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364ST0500X">364ST0500X</a></td><td>Transplantation Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SW0102X">364SW0102X</a></td><td>Women's Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SX0106X">364SX0106X</a></td><td>Occupational Health Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SX0200X">364SX0200X</a></td><td>Oncology Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-364SX0204X">364SX0204X</a></td><td>Pediatric Oncology Clinical Nurse Specialist</td><td>Definition to come...</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-367500000X">367500000X</a></td><td>Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist</td><td>(1) A licensed registered nurse with advanced specialty education in anesthesia who, in collaboration with appropriate health care professionals, provides preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative care to patients and assists in management and resuscitation of critical patients in intensive care, coronary care, and emergency situations. Nurse anesthetists are certified following successful completion of credentials and state licensure review and a national examination directed by the Council on Certification of Nurse Anesthetists. (2) A registered nurse who is qualified by special training to administer anesthesia in collaboration with a physician or dentist and who can assist in the care of patients who are in critical condition.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-367A00000X">367A00000X</a></td><td>Advanced Practice Midwife</td><td>Midwifery practice as conducted by certified nurse-midwives (CNMs) and certified midwives (CMs) is the independent management of women's health care, focusing particularly on pregnancy, childbirth, the post partum period, care of the newborn, and the family planning and gynecologic needs of women. The CNM and CM practice within a health care system that provides for consultation, collaborative management, or referral, as indicated by the health status of the client. CNMs and CMs practice in accord with the Standards for the Practice of Midwifery, as defined by the American College of Nurse-Midwives (ACNM).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-367H00000X">367H00000X</a></td><td>Anesthesiologist Assistant</td><td>An individual certified by the state to perform anesthesia services under the direct supervision of an anesthesiologist.  Anesthesiologist Assistants are required to have a bachelor's degree with a premed curriculum prior to entering a two-year anesthesiology assistant program, which is focused upon the delivery and maintenance of anesthesia care as well as advanced patient monitoring techniques.  An Anesthesiologist Assistant must work as a member of the anesthesia care team under the direction of a qualified Anesthesiologist.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-372500000X">372500000X</a></td><td>Chore Provider</td><td>An individual who provides home maintenance services required to sustain a safe, sanitary living environment for individuals who because of age or disabilities is unable to perform the activities.  These services include heavy household chores such as washing floors, windows, and walls; tacking down loose rugs and tiles; and moving heavy items of furniture in order to provide safe access and egress.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-372600000X">372600000X</a></td><td>Adult Companion</td><td>An individual who provides supervision, socialization, and non-medical care to a functionally impaired adult.  Companions may assist or supervise the individual with such tasks as meal preparation, laundry and shopping, but do not perform these activities as discrete services.  These services are provided in accordance with a therapeutic goal in the plan of care.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-373H00000X">373H00000X</a></td><td>Day Training/Habilitation Specialist</td><td>Individuals experienced or trained in working with developmentally disabled individuals who need assistance in acquiring and maintaining life skills that enable them to cope more effectively with the demands of independent living.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-374700000X">374700000X</a></td><td>Technician</td><td>(1) A person with specialized training in a narrow field of expertise whose occupation requires training and is skilled in specific technical processes and procedures. (2) An individual having special skill or practical knowledge in an area, such as operation and maintenance of equipment or performance of laboratory procedures involving biochemical analyses. Special technical qualifications are normally required, though an increasing number or technicians also possess university degrees in science, and occasionally doctorate degrees. The distinction between technician and technologist in the health care field is not always clear.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3747A0650X">3747A0650X</a></td><td>Attendant Care Provider</td><td>An individual who provides hands-on care, of both a supportive and health related nature, specific to the needs of a medically stable, physically handicapped individual.  Supportive services are those that substitute for the absence, loss, diminution, or impairment of a physical or cognitive function.  This service may include skilled or nursing care to the extent permitted by state law.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-3747P1801X">3747P1801X</a></td><td>Personal Care Attendant</td><td>An individual who provides assistance with eating, bathing, dressing, personal hygiene, activities of daily living as specified in the plan of care.  Services which are incidental to the care furnished, or essential to the health and welfare of the individual may also be provided.  Personal care providers must meet state defined training and certification standards</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-374J00000X">374J00000X</a></td><td>Doula</td><td>Doulas work in a variety of settings and have been trained to provide physical, emotional, and informational support to a mother before, during, and just after birth and/or provide emotional and practical support to a mother during the postpartum period.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-374K00000X">374K00000X</a></td><td>Religious Nonmedical Practitioner</td><td>A religious nonmedical practitioner offers spiritually-based care.  Services may be rendered in an office, home, or care facility or by phone, email, or written correspondence.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-374T00000X">374T00000X</a></td><td>Religious Nonmedical Nursing Personnel</td><td>Religious nonmedical nursing personnel are experienced in caring for the physical needs of nonmedical patients.  For example, caring for the physical needs such as assistance with activities of daily living; assistance with moving, positioning, and ambulation; nutritional needs; and comfort and support measures.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-374U00000X">374U00000X</a></td><td>Home Health Aide</td><td>A person trained to assist public health nurses, home health nurses, and other health professionals in the bedside care of patients in their homes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-376G00000X">376G00000X</a></td><td>Nursing Home Administrator</td><td>An individual, often licensed by the state, who is responsible for the management of a nursing home.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-376J00000X">376J00000X</a></td><td>Homemaker</td><td>An individual who provides general household activities such as meal preparation, laundry, and light housekeeping, when the individual regularly responsible for these activities is temporarily absent or unable to provide for himself.  Homemakers must meet the state defined training standards.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-376K00000X">376K00000X</a></td><td>Nurse's Aide</td><td>(1) An unlicensed individual who is trained to function in an assistive role to the licensed nurse in the provision of patient/client activities as delegated by the nurse; (2) An individual trained (either on-the-job or through a formal course generally of less than one year) and experienced in performing patient or client-care nursing tasks that do not require the skills of a specialist, technician, or professional. Examples of tasks performed by nurses aides include changing clothes, diapers, and beds; assisting patients to perform exercises or personal hygiene tasks, and supporting communication or social interaction. Specific education and credentials are not required for this work.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://tx.fhir.org/r4/ValueSet/nucc-provider-taxonomy#nucc-provider-taxonomy-405300000X">405300000X</a></td><td>Prevention Professional</td><td>Prevention Professionals work in programs aimed to address specific patient needs, such as suicide prevention, violence prevention, alcohol avoidance, drug avoidance, and tobacco prevention.   The goal of the program is to reduce the risk of relapse, injury, or re-injury of the patient.  Prevention Professionals work in a variety of settings and provide appropriate case management, mediation, referral, and mentorship services.  Individuals complete prevention professionals training for the population of patients with whom they work.</td></tr></table></li></ul></div>{% endraw %}