{% raw %}<div data-fhir="generated"><p class="res-header-id"/><a name="cycle"> </a><a name="hccycle"> </a><p>This case-sensitive code system <code>https://cycle.fhir.me/CodeSystem/cycle</code> defines the following codes:</p><table class="codes" data-fhir="generated"><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap"><b>Code</b></td><td><b>Display</b></td><td><b>Definition</b></td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">menstrual-bleeding<a name="cycle-menstrual-bleeding"> </a></td><td>Menstrual bleeding</td><td>Whether the source reports menstrual bleeding at the associated date or timestamp. This is the Layer 0 universal bleeding core fact; true and false are both meaningful only when explicitly recorded or reliably represented by the source.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">menstrual-flow<a name="cycle-menstrual-flow"> </a></td><td>Patient-reported menstrual flow category</td><td>An uncalibrated ordinal menstrual-flow category selected in a tracking application.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">symptom<a name="cycle-symptom"> </a></td><td>Symptom</td><td>A symptom reported, selected, or otherwise represented by a tracking application. The specific symptom is carried in Observation.valueCodeableConcept.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">flow-none<a name="cycle-flow-none"> </a></td><td>None</td><td>The user explicitly selected no menstrual flow.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">flow-spotting<a name="cycle-flow-spotting"> </a></td><td>Spotting</td><td>The user selected the application's spotting flow category.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">flow-light<a name="cycle-flow-light"> </a></td><td>Light</td><td>The user selected the application's light flow category.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">flow-moderate<a name="cycle-flow-moderate"> </a></td><td>Moderate</td><td>The user selected the application's middle or moderate flow category.</td></tr><tr><td style="white-space:nowrap">flow-heavy<a name="cycle-flow-heavy"> </a></td><td>Heavy</td><td>The user selected the application's highest or heavy flow category. This does not assert measured blood loss or clinical hemorrhage.</td></tr></table></div>{% endraw %}