{% raw %} <li><a href="StructureDefinition-uscdi-requirement.html">US Core USCDI Requirement Extension</a> <p><strong>This extension is only used in the US Core Implementation Guide's Profile StructureDefinition elements.</strong>  It flags elements that are <em>Additional</em> USCDI Requirements for certified systems. In other words, elements that are not marked as Must Support but are required for Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) Health IT certification testing. See the <a href="general-requirements.html">Conformance page</a> for more information.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-adi-documentreference.html">US Core ADI DocumentReference Profile</a> <p>The US Core Advance Directive Information (ADI) DocumentReference Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/documentreference.html">DocumentReference</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. It sets minimum expectations for searching and fetching patient Advance Directive Information (ADI) documents using the DocumentReference resource. Examples of advance healthcare directive documents include physician order for life sustaining treatment (POLST), do not resuscitate order (DNR), and Living Will. In addition to the document contents, it communicates the type of advance directive document, the author, the verifier, and other properties. To represent whether advance directive documents exist for a patient, see the <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-adi-documentation.html">US Core Observation ADI Documentation Profile</a>. This profile sets minimum expectations for searching and fetching patient ADI documents using the DocumentReference resource. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-allergyintolerance.html">US Core AllergyIntolerance Profile</a> <p>The US Core AllergyIntolerance Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/allergyintolerance.html">AllergyIntolerance</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the AllergyIntolerance resource to record, search, and fetch allergies/adverse reactions associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-authentication-time.html">US Core Authentication Time Extension</a> <p>This extension indicates when the information in the document was verified.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-average-blood-pressure.html">US Core Average Blood Pressure Profile</a> <p>The US Core Average Blood Pressure Profile inherits from the <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for recording, searching, and fetching average diastolic and systolic blood pressure observations with standard LOINC codes and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-bmi.html">US Core BMI Profile</a> <p>The US Core BMI Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch Body Mass Index (BMI) observations with standard LOINC codes and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-birthsex.html">US Core Birth Sex Extension</a> <p>A code classifying the person's sex assigned at birth. This extension aligns with LOINC 76689-9 (Sex assigned at birth).</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-blood-pressure.html">US Core Blood Pressure Profile</a> <p>US Core Blood Pressure Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch diastolic and systolic blood pressure observations with standard LOINC codes and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-body-height.html">US Core Body Height Profile</a> <p>The US Core Body Height Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch body height observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-body-temperature.html">US Core Body Temperature Profile</a> <p>The US Core Body Temperature Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch body temperature observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-body-weight.html">US Core Body Weight Profile</a> <p>The US Core Body Weight Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch body weight observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-care-experience-preference.html">US Core Care Experience Preference Profile</a> <p>The US Core Care Experience Preference Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile provides guidance on how to record a care experience preference expressed by the patient regarding their care and treatment. Examples include, but are not limited to, religious preferences, dislikes and fears, preferred place for birth, preferred pharmacy, and thoughts and feelings to be shared. This profile does not represent an actual order, but it can guide caregivers and medical personnel about what is important for the person. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch for a patient care experience preferences. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-careplan.html">US Core CarePlan Profile</a> <p>The US Core CarePlan Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/careplan.html">CarePlan</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the CarePlan resource to record,  search, and fetch assessment and plan of treatment data associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-careteam.html">US Core CareTeam Profile</a> <p>The US Core CareTeam Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/careteam.html">CareTeam</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the CareTeam resource for identifying the Care Team members associated with a patient to promote interoperability and adoption through common implementation. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-condition-encounter-diagnosis.html">US Core Condition Encounter Diagnosis Profile</a> <p>The US Core Condition Encounter Diagnosis Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/condition.html">Condition</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. US Core version 5.0.0 split the US Core Condition Profile into this profile and the US Core Condition Problems and Health Concerns Profile. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Encounter Diagnosis</em> Data Element. It sets minimum expectations for the Condition resource to record, search, and fetch information about an encounter diagnosis. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-condition-problems-health-concerns.html">US Core Condition Problems and Health Concerns Profile</a> <p>The US Core Condition Problems and Health Concerns Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/condition.html">Condition</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. US Core version 5.0.0 split the US Core Condition Profile into this profile and the US Core Condition Encounter Diagnosis Profile. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Problems</em>, <em>Health Concerns</em>, and <em>SDOH Problems/Health Concerns</em> Data Elements. It sets minimum expectations for the Condition resource to record, search, and fetch information about a condition, diagnosis, or another event, situation, issue, or clinical concept documented and categorized as a problem or health concern, including information about a Social Determinants of Health related condition. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-coverage.html">US Core Coverage Profile</a> <p>The US Core Coverage Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/coverage.html">Coverage</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the US Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) <em>Health Insurance Information</em> Data Class. It sets minimum expectations for the Coverage resource to record, search, and fetch data related to an individual's insurance coverage for health care. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-device.html">US Core Device Profile</a> <p>The US Core Device Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/device.html">Device</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. It sets minimum expectations for the Device resource to record, search, and fetch medical and non-medical devices (for example, software or crutches). This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) <em>Medical Device</em> Data Class, including FDA Unique Device Identification (UDI) information associated with a patient's medical device(s). It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used and provides the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-lab.html">US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting</a> <p>The US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/diagnosticreport.html">DiagnosticReport</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. Laboratory results are grouped and summarized using the DiagnosticReport resource, which typically references Observation resource(s). Each Observation resource represents an individual laboratory test and result value or component result values or a nested panel (such as a microbial susceptibility panel) that references other observations. Laboratory results can also be presented in report form or as free text. This profile sets minimum expectations for the DiagnosticReport resource to record, search,  and fetch laboratory results associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-note.html">US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Report and Note Exchange</a> <p>The US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Report and Note Exchange inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/diagnosticreport.html">DiagnosticReport</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for searching and fetching Diagnostic Reports and Notes using the DiagnosticReport resource. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption. Before reviewing this profile, implementers are encouraged to read the Clinical Notes Guidance to understand the overlap of the US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Report and Note exchange and the US Core DocumentReference Profile.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-direct.html">US Core Direct email Extension</a> <p>This email address is associated with a <a href="https://directtrust.org/what-we-do/direct-secure-messaging">&quot;Direct Secure Messaging&quot;</a> service.  This extension can only be used on contact points where the system = 'email'</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-documentreference.html">US Core DocumentReference Profile</a> <p>The US Core DocumentReference Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/documentreference.html">DocumentReference</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for searching and fetching patient documents including Clinical Notes using the DocumentReference resource.  It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption. Before reviewing this profile, implementers are encouraged to read the Clinical Notes Guidance to understand the overlap of the US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Report and Note exchange and the US Core DocumentReference Profile.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-encounter.html">US Core Encounter Profile</a> <p>The US Core Encounter Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/encounter.html">Encounter</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Encounter resource to record, search, and fetch basic encounter information for an individual patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-ethnicity.html">US Core Ethnicity Extension</a> <p>Concepts classifying the person into a named category of humans sharing common history, traits, geographical origin or nationality.  The ethnicity codes used to represent these concepts are based upon the <a href="https://phinvads.cdc.gov/vads/ViewCodeSystem.action?id=2.16.840.1.113883.6.238">Race &amp; Ethnicity - CDC (CDCREC)</a> code system. Detailed ethnicity concepts are grouped by and pre-mapped to the 2 OMB ethnicity categories:</p>
<ul>
<li>Hispanic or Latino</li>
<li>Not Hispanic or Latino.</li>
</ul>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-extension-questionnaire-uri.html">US Core Extension Questionnaire URI</a> <p>The location where a non-FHIR questionnaire/survey form can be found. This extension is used when the survey, form, or questionnaire which is being answered is not a FHIR <a href="https://www.hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire.html">Questionnaire</a>, otherwise the <a href="https://www.hl7.org/fhir/references.html#canonical">canonical url</a> for the FHIR Questionnaire is used.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-familymemberhistory.html">US Core FamilyMemberHistory Profile</a> <p>The US Core FamilyMemberHistory Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/familymemberhistory.html">FamilyMemberHistory</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the FamilyMemberHistory resource to record, search, and retrieve basic clinical information about a family member's health history that is relevant to a patient's care. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-familymemberhistory-recorder.html">US Core FamilyMemberHistory Recorder Extension</a> <p>Individual who recorded the family member's health history and takes responsibility for its content. Because the recorder takes responsibility for accurately recording information in the record, the recorder is the most recent author. The recorder might or might not be the asserter.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-genderIdentity.html">US Core Gender Identity Extension</a> <p>This extension represents an individual's sense of being a man, woman, boy, girl, nonbinary, or something else, ascertained by asking them what that identity is.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-goal.html">US Core Goal Profile</a> <p>The US Core Goal Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/goal.html">Goal</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Goal resource to record,  search, and fetch Goal information associated with a patient.   It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-head-circumference.html">US Core Head Circumference Profile</a> <p>The US Core Head Circumference Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch head circumference observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-heart-rate.html">US Core Heart Rate Profile</a> <p>The US Core Heart Rate Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch heart rate observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-immunization.html">US Core Immunization Profile</a> <p>The US Core Immunization Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/immunization.html">Immunization</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Immunization resource to record, search, and fetch immunization history associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-individual-sex.html">US Core Individual Sex Extension</a> <p>USCDI includes a data element for Sex, intended to support the exchange of a recorded sex value. This extension aligns with the USCDI definition of Sex: &quot;Documentation of a specific instance of sex.&quot; It enables systems to share the sex value as it was documented in a particular context.  Systems choosing to record sources of information should use the <a href="element-level-provenance.html">Provenance resource</a>.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-interpreter-needed.html">US Core Interpreter Needed Extension</a> <p>This extension indicates the individual's need for an interpreter to communicate healthcare information in a language other than the default language of the organization. It has the same meaning as the LOINC <a href="https://loinc.org/54588-9">54588-9</a> (Interpreter needed)</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-jurisdiction.html">US Core Jurisdiction Extension</a> <p>An extension to communicate the US state or local jurisdiction for individual and entity identifiers. For example, a practitioner's state or local jurisdiction for a license.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-lab.html">US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile is based upon the US Core Observation Clinical Result Profile and, along with the US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting, meets the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) Laboratory requirements. Laboratory results are grouped and summarized using the DiagnosticReport resource, which references Observation resources. Each Observation resource represents an individual laboratory test and result value, a “nested” panel (such as a microbial susceptibility panel) that references other observations, or rarely a laboratory test with component result values. The US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch laboratory test results associated with a patient to promote interoperability and adoption through common implementation. It identifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets SHALL be present in the resource and constrains the way the elements are used when using this profile. It provides the floor for standards development for specific use cases.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-location.html">US Core Location Profile</a> <p>The US Core Location Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/location.html">Location</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Location resource for  recording, searching, and fetching a &quot;physical place of available services or resources.&quot;  It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-medication-adherence.html">US Core Medication Adherence Extension</a> <p>The Medication Adherence Extension is used to report whether a medication has been consumed according to instructions as reported by a patient or on behalf of the patient.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-medicationdispense.html">US Core MedicationDispense Profile</a> <p>The US Core MedicationDispense Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/medicationdispense.html">MedicationDispense</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the MedicationDispense resource to record, search, and fetch the state of a patients medication with regards to dispensing or other activity. (e.g., dispensed, partially dispensed, not dispensed)  It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-medication.html">US Core Medication Profile</a> <p>The US Core Medication Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/medication.html">Medication</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Medication resource to record, search, and fetch medications associated with a patient. When referencing a medication, the MedicationRequest resource can use a code or refer to this profile. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-medicationrequest.html">US Core MedicationRequest Profile</a> <p>The US Core MedicationRequest Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/medicationrequest.html">MedicationRequest</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the <a href="https://www.healthit.gov/isp/united-states-core-data-interoperability-uscdi">U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)</a>  <em>Medications</em> Data Class. This profile sets minimum expectations for the MedicationRequest resource to record, search, and fetch a patient's medication prescriptions or orders. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-adi-documentation.html">US Core Observation ADI Documentation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Observation Advance Directive Information (ADI) Documentation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile and the <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-adi-documentreference.html">US Core Observation ADI DocumentationReference Profile</a> meet the <a href="https://www.healthit.gov/isp/united-states-core-data-interoperability-uscdi">U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)</a> <em>Advance Directive Observation</em> Data Element requirements. It is used to communicate whether a person has advance directive information (ADI) and, if one or more documents exist, their location. Examples of advance healthcare directive documents include physician order for life sustaining treatment (POLST), do not resuscitate order (DNR), and medical power of attorney. To communicate the type of advance directive document, the author, the verifier, and other properties, see the US Core ADI DocumentReference Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch findings about the presence of a patient's advance directives. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-clinical-result.html">US Core Observation Clinical Result Profile</a> <p>The US Core Observation Clinical Result Profile is based upon the core FHIR Observation Resource and, along with the US Core DiagnosticReport Profile, meets the US Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) requirements for <em>Diagnostic Imaging</em> and <em>Clinical Tests</em> Data Classes. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record and search non-laboratory clinical test results (e.g., radiology and other clinical observations generated from procedures). An example would be when a gastroenterologist reports the size of a polyp observed during a colonoscopy. This profile is the basis for the US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile, which defines additional data elements to record and search laboratory test results.</p>
<p>The US Core Observation Clinical Result Profile sets minimum expectations to promote interoperability and adoption through common implementation. It identifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains the way the elements are used when using this profile. It provides the floor for standards development for specific use cases.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-occupation.html">US Core Observation Occupation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Observation Occupation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Occupation</em> and <em>Occupation Industry</em> Data Elements. It sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch a patient's past or present job as occupation and industry, in other words, the type of work and type of business that compensates for work or assigns work to an unpaid worker or volunteer. In the context of this profile, a job is defined as a work situation or a training or volunteer position held for a specified period. This profile specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-pregnancyintent.html">US Core Observation Pregnancy Intent Profile</a> <p>The  US Core Observation Pregnancy Intent Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Pregnancy Status</em> Data Element. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch the patient's intention to become pregnant. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-pregnancystatus.html">US Core Observation Pregnancy Status Profile</a> <p>The  US Core Pregnancy Status Observation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Pregnancy Status</em> Data Element. It sets minimum expectations for the  Observation resource to record, search, and fetch the patient's state or condition of being pregnant. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-screening-assessment.html">US Core Observation Screening Assessment Profile</a> <p>The US Core Observation Screening Assessment Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. Beginning with US Core Version 6.0.0, this profile supersedes the US Core Observation Survey Profile (see the <a href="changes-between-versions.html">Changes Between Versions</a> page for a summary of cross-version comparisons of US Core Profiles).  This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) <em>Health Status Assessments</em> Data Class. It sets the minimum expectations for the Observation Resource to record, search, and fetch observations representing the questions and responses to surveys and screening and assessment tools. For example, a social history status such as education or food insecurity or an assessment of cognitive, functional, or disability status. It can represent a single response, multiple responses, and multi-select &quot;check all that apply&quot; type questions. This profile specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption. Before reviewing this profile, implementers are encouraged to read the Screening and Assessments guidance page, which documents the process of recording responses and capturing assertions/determinations resulting from surveys and questionnaires.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-sexual-orientation.html">US Core Observation Sexual Orientation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Observation Sexual Orientation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This Profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch sexual orientation observations associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-organization.html">US Core Organization Profile</a> <p>The US Core Organization Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/organization.html">Organization</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Organization resource to record, search, and fetch patient or provider organization information. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.html">US Core Patient Profile</a> <p>The US Core Patient Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/patient.html">Patient</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the <a href="https://www.healthit.gov/isp/united-states-core-data-interoperability-uscdi">U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)</a> <em>Patient Demographics/Information</em> Data Class. It sets minimum expectations for the Patient resource to record, search, and fetch basic demographics and other administrative information about an individual patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-pediatric-bmi-for-age.html">US Core Pediatric BMI for Age Observation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Pediatric BMI for Age Observation Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch pediatric body mass index (BMI) percentile per age and sex for youth 2-20  observations in FHIR using a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-head-occipital-frontal-circumference-percentile.html">US Core Pediatric Head Occipital Frontal Circumference Percentile Profile</a> <p>The US Core Pediatric Head Occipital Frontal Circumference Percentile Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch pediatric head occipital frontal circumference (OFC) percentile observations associated with a patient from birth to 37 Months of age using a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-pediatric-weight-for-height.html">US Core Pediatric Weight for Height Observation Profile</a> <p>US Core Pediatric Weight for Height Observation Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch pediatric weight-for-length per age and sex observations in FHIR with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-practitioner.html">US Core Practitioner Profile</a> <p>The US Core Practitioner Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/practitioner.html">Practitioner</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Practitioner resource to record, search, and fetch basic demographics and administrative information about an individual practitioner. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-practitionerrole.html">US Core PractitionerRole Profile</a> <p>The US Core PractitionerRole Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/practitionerrole.html">PractitionerRole</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the PractitionerRole Resource to record, search, and fetch the practitioner role information. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption. The requirements for the US Core Practitioner were drawn from the <a href="http://www.fhir.org/guides/argonaut/pd//release1/index.html">Argonaut Provider Directory</a>,  <a href="http://ihe.net/uploadedFiles/Documents/ITI/IHE_ITI_Suppl_HPD.pdf">IHE Healthcare Provider Directory</a>  and the <a href="https://confluence.oncprojectracking.org/display/PDW/Workshop+Documents">ONC Provider Directory Workshop</a>.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-procedure.html">US Core Procedure Profile</a> <p>The US Core Procedure Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/procedure.html">Procedure</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Procedures</em> Data Class. It sets minimum expectations for the Procedure resource to record, search, and fetch procedure information associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-provenance.html">US Core Provenance Profile</a> <p>The US Core Provenance Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/provenance.html">Provenance</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Provenance resource to record, search, and fetch provenance information associated with a record. It covers the minimal (basic) information to support lineage of information. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used.   Before reviewing this profile, implementers are encouraged to read the Basic Provenance guidance page, which documents several key use cases, specifically, the organization responsible for the most recent action on the resource.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-pulse-oximetry.html">US Core Pulse Oximetry Profile</a> <p>The US Core Pulse Oximetry Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch pulse oximetry and inspired oxygen observations with standard LOINC codes and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-questionnaireresponse.html">US Core QuestionnaireResponse Profile</a> <p>The US Core QuestionnaireResponse Profile inherits from the <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/uv/sdc/STU4/StructureDefinition-sdc-questionnaireresponse.html">Structured Data Capture (SDC) Questionnaire Response Profile</a>.   This profile sets minimum expectations for the QuestionnaireResponse resource to record, search, and fetch the responses to form/survey and assessment tools such as the <em>Protocol for Responding to and Assessing Patients\u2019 Assets, Risks, and Experiences (PRAPARE) Survey</em>.  It specifies which core <em>additional</em> elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used.  Before reviewing this profile, implementers are encouraged to read the Screening and Assessments guidance page, which documents the process of recording responses and capturing assertions/determinations resulting from surveys and questionnaires.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-race.html">US Core Race Extension</a> <p>Concepts classifying the person into a named category of humans sharing common history, traits, geographical origin or nationality.  The race codes used to represent these concepts are based upon the <a href="https://phinvads.cdc.gov/vads/ViewCodeSystem.action?id=2.16.840.1.113883.6.238">Race &amp; Ethnicity - CDC (CDCREC)</a> code system. Detailed race concepts are grouped by and pre-mapped to the 5 OMB race categories:</p>
<ul>
<li>American Indian or Alaska Native</li>
<li>Asian</li>
<li>Black or African American</li>
<li>Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander</li>
<li>White.</li>
</ul>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-relatedperson.html">US Core RelatedPerson Profile</a> <p>The US Core RelatedPerson Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/relatedperson.html">RelatedPerson</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the RelatedPerson resource to record, search, and fetch basic administrative information about persons with a legal or familial relationship to a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-respiratory-rate.html">US Core Respiratory Rate Profile</a> <p>The US Core Respiratory Rate Profile inherits from the US Core Vital Signs Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search,  and fetch respiratory rate observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. It specifies which <em>additional</em>  core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-servicerequest.html">US Core ServiceRequest Profile</a> <p>The US Core ServiceRequest Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/servicerequest.html">ServiceRequest</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for recording, searching, and fetching the ServiceRequest information. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-sex.html">US Core Sex Extension</a> <p>The Sex Extension is used to reflect the documentation of a person's sex. Systems choosing to record sources of information should use the <a href="element-level-provenance.html">Provenance resource</a>.</p>
<p>USCDI includes a data element for sex, intended to support the exchange of a sex value that is not characterized as sex assigned at birth or birth sex. This Sex extension supports USCDI. Sex assigned at birth or birth sex can be recorded using the more specific <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-birthsex.html">US Core Birth Sex Extension</a>.
Future versions of this extension may be informed by the content of the HL7 Cross Paradigm IG: Gender Harmony - Sex and Gender Representation, which may include additional guidance on its relationship to administrative gender (<a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-patient-definitions.html#Patient.gender">Patient.gender</a>).</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-simple-observation.html">US Core Simple Observation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Simple Observation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This US Core FHIR Profile captures any &quot;simple&quot; observations not covered by other US Core Observation profiles. It represents any observation not classified as vital signs, laboratory,  imaging, or other specific observation types. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and retrieve observations such as a clinical observation or assertion about patient health status or other general observations. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-smokingstatus.html">US Core Smoking Status Observation Profile</a> <p>The US Core Smoking Status Observation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile meets the requirements of the U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)  <em>Smoking Status</em> Data Element. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch smoking status data associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-specimen.html">US Core Specimen Profile</a> <p>The US Core Specimen Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/specimen.html">Specimen</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Specimen resource to record, search, and fetch information about substances associated with a patient being sampled or tested (such as nasopharyngeal swab, whole blood,  or serum). It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-treatment-intervention-preference.html">US Core Treatment Intervention Preference Profile</a> <p>The US Core Treatment Intervention Preference Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile provides guidance on how to record a treatment intervention preference expressed by the patient regarding their personal health goals,  preferences, and priorities for medical treatments or interventions in the event of a future health scenario where a person is unable to make medical decisions because of a severe illness or injury. This profile does not represent an actual order, but it can guide caregivers and medical personnel about what is important for the person. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch for patient treatment intervention preferences. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-tribal-affiliation.html">US Core Tribal Affiliation Extension</a> <p>This Extension profile represents a tribe or band with which a person associates and, optionally, whether they are enrolled.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-vital-signs.html">US Core Vital Signs Profile</a> <p>This profile is based on the base <a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation-vitalsigns.html">FHIR Vital Signs Profile</a>  and defines <em>additional</em> constraints on the Observation resource to represent vital  signs observations. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.  This US Core profiles that are derived from this profile  are listed below.</p>
</li>
{% endraw %}