{% raw %}<table class="grid" data-fhir="generated-heirarchy">
<tbody>
<tr><td>Defining URL:</td><td>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/Questionnaire/prapare-example</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Version:</td><td>9.0.0</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Name:</td><td>PRAPAREExample</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Title:</td><td>Protocol for Responding to and Assessing Patients' Assets, Risks, and Experiences [PRAPARE]</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Status:</td><td>Experimental as of 2023-03-31</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Publisher:</td><td>HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects. <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects</a>, , <a href="mailto:cgp@lists.HL7.org">Email</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Copyright:</td><td><p>This material contains content from LOINC® (http://loinc.org). LOINC is copyright © 1995-2024, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the LOINC Committee, and is available at no cost under the license at http://loinc.org/license. Copyright © 2019. This item comes from the national PRAPARE social determinants of health assessment protocol, developed and owned by the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC), in partnership with the Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organization (AAPCHO), the Oregon Primary Care Association (OPCA), and the Institute for Alternative Futures (IAF). For more information, visit www.nachc.org/prapare. Used with permission.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Source Resource:</td><td><a href="Questionnaire-prapare-example.xml.html">XML</a> / <a href="Questionnaire-prapare-example.json.html">JSON</a> / <a href="Questionnaire-prapare-example.ttl.html">Turtle</a></td></tr>
</tbody></table>
{% endraw %}