{% raw %}<table class="grid" data-fhir="generated-heirarchy">
<tbody>
<tr><td>Defining URL:</td><td>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/StructureDefinition/us-core-observation-adi-documentation</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Version:</td><td>9.0.0</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Name:</td><td>USCoreObservationADIDocumentationProfile</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Title:</td><td>US Core Observation ADI Documentation Profile</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Status:</td><td>Active as of 2024-09-13 (<a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-standards-status.html#trial-use">Standards Status</a>: Trial Use)</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Definition:</td><td><p>The US Core Observation Advance Directive Information (ADI) Documentation Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/observation.html">Observation</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. This profile and the <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-adi-documentreference.html">US Core Observation ADI DocumentationReference Profile</a> meet the <a href="https://www.healthit.gov/isp/united-states-core-data-interoperability-uscdi">U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)</a> <em>Advance Directive Observation</em> Data Element requirements. It is used to communicate whether a person has advance directive information (ADI) and, if one or more documents exist, their location. Examples of advance healthcare directive documents include physician order for life sustaining treatment (POLST), do not resuscitate order (DNR), and medical power of attorney. To communicate the type of advance directive document, the author, the verifier, and other properties, see the US Core ADI DocumentReference Profile. This profile sets minimum expectations for the Observation resource to record, search, and fetch findings about the presence of a patient's advance directives. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present in the resource and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Publisher:</td><td>HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects. <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects</a>, , <a href="mailto:cgp@lists.HL7.org">Email</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Committee:</td><td><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/7.2.0/CodeSystem-hl7-work-group.html#hl7-work-group-cgp">Cross-Group Projects</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Copyright:</td><td><p>Used by permission of HL7 International, all rights reserved Creative Commons License</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a class="fmm" href="http://hl7.org/fhir/versions.html#maturity" title="Maturity Level">Maturity</a>:</td><td>2</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Source Resource:</td><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-adi-documentation.profile.xml.html">XML</a> / <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-adi-documentation.profile.json.html">JSON</a> / <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-adi-documentation.profile.ttl.html">Turtle</a></td></tr>
</tbody></table>
{% endraw %}