{% raw %}<table class="grid" data-fhir="generated-heirarchy">
<tbody>
<tr><td>Defining URL:</td><td>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/StructureDefinition/us-core-diagnosticreport-lab</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Version:</td><td>9.0.0</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Name:</td><td>USCoreDiagnosticReportProfileLaboratoryReporting</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Title:</td><td>US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Status:</td><td>Active as of 2023-10-17 (<a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-standards-status.html#trial-use">Standards Status</a>: Trial Use)</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Definition:</td><td><p>The US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/diagnosticreport.html">DiagnosticReport</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. Laboratory results are grouped and summarized using the DiagnosticReport resource, which typically references Observation resource(s). Each Observation resource represents an individual laboratory test and result value or component result values or a nested panel (such as a microbial susceptibility panel) that references other observations. Laboratory results can also be presented in report form or as free text. This profile sets minimum expectations for the DiagnosticReport resource to record, search,  and fetch laboratory results associated with a patient. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Publisher:</td><td>HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects. <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects</a>, , <a href="mailto:cgp@lists.HL7.org">Email</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Committee:</td><td><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/7.2.0/CodeSystem-hl7-work-group.html#hl7-work-group-cgp">Cross-Group Projects</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td><a class="fmm" href="http://hl7.org/fhir/versions.html#maturity" title="Maturity Level">Maturity</a>:</td><td>5</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Source Resource:</td><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-lab.profile.xml.html">XML</a> / <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-lab.profile.json.html">JSON</a> / <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-lab.profile.ttl.html">Turtle</a></td></tr>
</tbody></table>
{% endraw %}