{% raw %}<table class="grid" data-fhir="generated-heirarchy">
<tbody>
<tr><td>Defining URL:</td><td>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/StructureDefinition/us-core-adi-documentreference</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Version:</td><td>9.0.0</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Name:</td><td>USCoreADIDocumentReferenceProfile</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Title:</td><td>US Core ADI DocumentReference Profile</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Status:</td><td>Active as of 2023-10-17 (<a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-standards-status.html#trial-use">Standards Status</a>: Trial Use)</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Definition:</td><td><p>The US Core Advance Directive Information (ADI) DocumentReference Profile inherits from the FHIR <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/documentreference.html">DocumentReference</a> resource; refer to it for scope and usage definitions. It sets minimum expectations for searching and fetching patient Advance Directive Information (ADI) documents using the DocumentReference resource. Examples of advance healthcare directive documents include physician order for life sustaining treatment (POLST), do not resuscitate order (DNR), and Living Will. In addition to the document contents, it communicates the type of advance directive document, the author, the verifier, and other properties. To represent whether advance directive documents exist for a patient, see the <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-adi-documentation.html">US Core Observation ADI Documentation Profile</a>. This profile sets minimum expectations for searching and fetching patient ADI documents using the DocumentReference resource. It specifies which core elements, extensions, vocabularies, and value sets <strong>SHALL</strong> be present and constrains how the elements are used. Providing the floor for standards development for specific use cases promotes interoperability and adoption.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Publisher:</td><td>HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects. <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects</a>, , <a href="mailto:cgp@lists.HL7.org">Email</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Committee:</td><td><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/7.2.0/CodeSystem-hl7-work-group.html#hl7-work-group-cgp">Cross-Group Projects</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td><a class="fmm" href="http://hl7.org/fhir/versions.html#maturity" title="Maturity Level">Maturity</a>:</td><td>2</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Source Resource:</td><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-adi-documentreference.profile.xml.html">XML</a> / <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-adi-documentreference.profile.json.html">JSON</a> / <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-adi-documentreference.profile.ttl.html">Turtle</a></td></tr>
</tbody></table>
{% endraw %}