{% raw %}<p>This profile includes IP covered under the following statements.</p>
<ul>
<li>"Material on this site is the copyrighted property of the United States Postal Service&reg; (Postal Service&trade;). All rights reserved. The information and images presented here may not under any circumstances be reproduced or used without prior written permission. Users may view and download material from this site only for the following purposes: (a) for personal, non-commercial home use; (b) where the materials clearly state that these materials may be copied and reproduced according to the terms stated in those particular pages; or (c) with the express written permission of the Postal Service. In all other cases, you will need written permission from the Postal Service to reproduce, republish, upload, post, transmit, distribute or publicly display material from this Web site. Users agree not to use the site for sale, trade or other commercial purposes. Users may not use language that is threatening, abusive, vulgar, discourteous or criminal. Users also may not post or transmit information or materials that would violate rights of any third party or which contains a virus or other harmful component. The Postal Service reserves the right to remove or edit any messages or material submitted by users."For more information, see <a href="https://about.usps.com/who/legal/terms-of-use.htm"><a href="https://about.usps.com/who/legal/terms-of-use.htm">https://about.usps.com/who/legal/terms-of-use.htm</a></a>
.<div data-fhir="generated" id="ipp_1" onClick="if (document.getElementById('ipp2_1').innerHTML != '') {document.getElementById('ipp_1').innerHTML = document.getElementById('ipp2_1').innerHTML; document.getElementById('ipp2_1').innerHTML = ''}"> <span style="cursor: pointer; border: 1px grey solid; background-color: #fcdcb3; padding-left: 3px; padding-right: 3px; color: black">Show Usage</span></div><div id="ipp2_1" style="display: none">
<ul>
<li><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/6.5.0/CodeSystem-USPSStateCodes.html">USPS State Codes</a>: <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-practitioner.html">USCorePractitionerProfile</a></li>
</ul>
</div></li>
<li>ISO maintains the copyright on the country codes, and controls its use carefully. For further details see the ISO 3166 web page: <a href="https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html">https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html</a><div data-fhir="generated" id="ipp_2" onClick="if (document.getElementById('ipp2_2').innerHTML != '') {document.getElementById('ipp_2').innerHTML = document.getElementById('ipp2_2').innerHTML; document.getElementById('ipp2_2').innerHTML = ''}"> <span style="cursor: pointer; border: 1px grey solid; background-color: #fcdcb3; padding-left: 3px; padding-right: 3px; color: black">Show Usage</span></div><div id="ipp2_2" style="display: none">
<ul>
<li><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/6.5.0/CodeSystem-ISO3166Part1.html">ISO 3166-1 Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions — Part 1: Country code</a>: <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-practitioner.html">USCorePractitionerProfile</a></li>
</ul>
</div></li>
</ul>
{% endraw %}