{% raw %}<table data-resource-type="OperationDefinition" class="grid filtered-table">
  <tr>
    <th>Identity</th>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Version</th>
    <th>Status</th>
    <th>Owner</th>
    <th>Copyright</th>
    <th>Date</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <input size="10" id="filter-identity" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="30" id="filter-name" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="4" id="filter-version" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="4" id="filter-status" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="5" id="filter-owner" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="5" id="filter-copyright" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="6" id="filter-date" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
    <td>
      <input size="30" id="filter-desc" type="text" class="filter-input"/>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="data-row">
    <td>
      <a href="OperationDefinition/docref" title="docref">docref</a>
    </td>
    <td>US Core Fetch DocumentReference</td>
    <td>9.0.0</td>
    <td>trial-use</td>
    <td>
      <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">cgp</a>
    </td>
    <td>n/a</td>
    <td>2022-11-18</td>
    <td title="This operation is used to return all the references to documents related to a
patient. It is invoked on a FHIR Server's DocumentReference endpoint (e.g., `[base]/DocumentReference/$docref`) and operates across all DocumentReference instances.

The operation requires a patient id and takes the optional input parameters:
- start context date
- end context date
- document type
- on-demand
- profile

and returns a *searchset* [Bundle](http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html) containing [DocumentReference](http://hl7.org/fhir/documentreference.html) resources for the patient. If the server has stored documents or can create documents for the patient and those documents are available for the user, the server returns the DocumentReference resources associated with documents. This operation's intended use is to provide a way for providers or patients to access their available documents. The document itself can be subsequently retrieved using the link provided  in the `DocumentReference.content.attachment.url element`. The link could be a FHIR endpoint to a [Binary](http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/binary.html) Resource or some other document repository.

This operation is *different* from a FHIR RESTful query on DocumentReference by patient and type and period range because:

1. It is used to request a server to *generate* a document based on the specified parameters.

1. If no parameters are specified, the server SHALL return a DocumentReference to the patient's current C-CDA CCD.

1. If the server cannot *generate* a document based on the specified parameters, the operation will return an empty search bundle.

Unless the client indicates they are only interested in 'on-demand' documents using the *on-demand* parameter, the server SHOULD return DocumentReference instances for *existing* documents that meet the request parameters  In this regard, this operation is *similar* to a FHIR RESTful query.">This operation is used to return all the references to documents related to a
patient. It is invoke…
</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p class="table-filter-summary">Showing 1 of 1 entries</p>
<script src="assets/js/table.js"> </script>
{% endraw %}