{% raw %} <tr><td><a href="Requirements-us-core-certifying-system.html">US Core Certifying System Requirements</a> </td><td><p>This <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/requirements.html">Requirements</a> resource lists the <em>additional requirements</em> for systems certifying for Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) Health IT Certification (g(10) certification. These requirements represent the regulatory and technical specifications that design artifacts must meet to ensure interoperability.  See the <a href="Requirements-us-core-server.html">US Core Server Requirements</a> for the US Core Responder (Server) requirements defined in the US Core Implementation Guide narrative sections.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="Requirements-us-core-client.html">US Core Client Requirements</a> </td><td><p>This <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/requirements.html">Requirements</a> resource lists the US Core Requestor (Client) requirements defined in the US Core Implementation Guide narrative sections. These requirements represent the regulatory, business, functional, and technical specifications that design artifacts must meet to ensure interoperability.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="Requirements-us-core-server.html">US Core Server Requirements</a> </td><td><p>This <a href="https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/requirements.html">Requirements</a> resource lists the US Core Responder (Server) requirements defined in the US Core Implementation Guide narrative sections. These requirements represent the regulatory, business, functional, and technical specifications that design artifacts must meet to ensure interoperability. See the <a href="Requirements-us-core-certifying-system.html">US Core Certifying System Requirements</a> for the <em>additional requirements</em> for systems certifying for Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) Health IT Certification (g)(10) certification.</p>
</td></tr>
{% endraw %}