{% raw %}<table class="grid" data-fhir="generated-heirarchy">
<tbody>
<tr><td>Defining URL:</td><td>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/ValueSet/us-core-procedure-code</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Version:</td><td>9.0.0</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Name:</td><td>USCoreProcedureCodes</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Title:</td><td>US Core Procedure Codes</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Status:</td><td>Active as of 2022-09-29 (<a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-standards-status.html#trial-use">Standards Status</a>: Trial Use)</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Definition:</td><td><p>Concepts from CPT, SNOMED CT, HCPCS Level II Alphanumeric Codes, ICD-10-PCS, CDT and LOINC code systems that can be used to indicate the type of procedure performed.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Publisher:</td><td>HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects. <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects</a>, , <a href="mailto:cgp@lists.HL7.org">Email</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Committee:</td><td><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/7.2.0/CodeSystem-hl7-work-group.html#hl7-work-group-cgp">Cross-Group Projects</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Copyright:</td><td><ol>
<li>Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) is copyright 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved</li>
<li>This value set includes content from SNOMED CT, which is copyright © 2002+ International Health Terminology Standards Development Organisation (IHTSDO), and distributed by agreement between IHTSDO and HL7. Implementer use of SNOMED CT is not covered by this agreement.</li>
<li>HCPCS Level II Alphanumeric Codes codes are maintained by the US Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) available for public use.</li>
<li>The International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision, Procedure Coding System (ICD-10-PCS) was developed for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) available for public use. CMS is the U.S. governmental agency responsible for overseeing all changes and modifications  to the ICD-10-PCS.</li>
<li>The ADA is the exclusive copyright owner of CDT, the Code on Dental Procedures and Nomenclature (the Code), and the ADA Dental Claim Form. Except as permitted by law, all use, copying or distribution of CDT, or any portion  thereof (including the Code on Dental Procedures and Nomenclature) in any product or services (including works prepared for clients by consultants and other professionals), whether in printed, electronic or other format, requires a valid commercial user license from the ADA. CDT ® is a registered trademark of the American Dental Association. All Rights Reserved.</li>
<li>This material contains content from LOINC (http://loinc.org). LOINC is copyright © 1995-2020, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and is available at no cost under the license at http://loinc.org/license. LOINC® is a registered United States trademark of Regenstrief Institute, Inc</li>
</ol>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a class="fmm" href="http://hl7.org/fhir/versions.html#maturity" title="Maturity Level">Maturity</a>:</td><td>3</td></tr>
 <tr><td>OID:</td><td>2.16.840.1.113883.4.642.40.2.48.20 (null (for OID based terminology systems))</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Source Resource:</td><td><a href="ValueSet-us-core-procedure-code.xml.html">XML</a> / <a href="ValueSet-us-core-procedure-code.json.html">JSON</a> / <a href="ValueSet-us-core-procedure-code.ttl.html">Turtle</a></td></tr>
</tbody></table>
{% endraw %}