{% raw %}<table class="grid" data-fhir="generated-heirarchy">
<tbody>
<tr><td>Defining URL:</td><td>http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/ValueSet/us-core-condition-code</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Version:</td><td>9.0.0</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Name:</td><td>USCoreConditionCodes</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Title:</td><td>US Core Condition Codes</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Status:</td><td>Active as of 2022-09-29 (<a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-standards-status.html#trial-use">Standards Status</a>: Trial Use)</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Definition:</td><td><p>This describes the problem. Diagnosis/Problem List is broadly defined as a series of brief statements that catalog a patient's medical, nursing, dental, social, preventative and psychiatric events and issues that are relevant to that patient's healthcare (e.g., signs, symptoms, and defined conditions). ICD-10 is appropriate for Diagnosis information, and ICD-9 for historical information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Publisher:</td><td>HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects. <a href="http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/cgp">HL7 International / Cross-Group Projects</a>, , <a href="mailto:cgp@lists.HL7.org">Email</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Committee:</td><td><a href="http://terminology.hl7.org/7.2.0/CodeSystem-hl7-work-group.html#hl7-work-group-cgp">Cross-Group Projects</a></td></tr>
 <tr><td>Copyright:</td><td><ol>
<li>
<p>This value set includes content from SNOMED CT, which is copyright © 2002+
International Health Terminology Standards Development Organisation (IHTSDO),
and distributed by agreement between IHTSDO and HL7. Implementer use of
SNOMED CT is not covered by this agreement.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>ICD-9 and ICD-10 are copyrighted by the World Health Organization (WHO)
which owns and publishes the classification. See
https://www.who.int/classifications/icd/en. WHO has authorized the
development of an adaptation of ICD-9 and ICD-10 to ICD-9-CM to ICD-10-CM for
use in the United States for U.S. government purposes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a class="fmm" href="http://hl7.org/fhir/versions.html#maturity" title="Maturity Level">Maturity</a>:</td><td>3</td></tr>
 <tr><td>OID:</td><td>2.16.840.1.113883.4.642.40.2.48.16 (null (for OID based terminology systems))</td></tr>
 <tr><td>Source Resource:</td><td><a href="ValueSet-us-core-condition-code.xml.html">XML</a> / <a href="ValueSet-us-core-condition-code.json.html">JSON</a> / <a href="ValueSet-us-core-condition-code.ttl.html">Turtle</a></td></tr>
</tbody></table>
{% endraw %}